Speaker:Bernie Sanders
Date: 20160124
Category: Interview
Occasion: Meet the Press with Chuck Todd
Source: http://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/meet-press-january-24-2016-n503241
  Well, what I say to her is that if she would look at the matchups that are taking place between Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump right now, she would find that we were 15 points ahead of him nationally. That in tossup states, battleground states like Iowa and New Hampshire, we're even further ahead of him.  That I would very much look forward to a race against Donald Trump, a guy who does not want to raise the minimum wage, but wants to give hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to the top two-tenths of 1 percent who thinks wages in America are too high and who thinks that climate change is a hoax, invented by the Chinese. Chuck, there would be nothing more in this world that I would like to take on Donald Trump. We would beat him, and we would beat him badly.  
  It tells me that we are taking on the political establishment, we're taking on the economic establishment, the financial interest in this country, and we're taking on the corporate establishment. That is what is unique about this race. That in fact, we are trying to make a political revolution bring millions of people into the political process that Washington and all of these politicians have significantly turned their backs on.  So yes, we have the establishment supporting Secretary Clinton. That is not a secret. But the reason that our campaign is generating so much interest and enthusiasm is people think it's time that we take on the establishment. Take on Wall Street. Take on big money interest. And that's why I believe we're doing as well as we are.  
  Well, for the same reason that Barack Obama has and the same reason I believe that Hillary Clinton has. And that is, it is absolutely wrong and unacceptable that we have so much poverty in this country and it is even worse in the African American community. That African American kids, between 17 and 20, who graduate high school, have unemployment rates and underemployment rates of 51 percent.  That 36 percent of African American children are living in poverty. This is an issue that we have got to address. And my intention, as president of the United States, is to be very aggressive in dealing with those issues, to put our kids to work rather than see them go to jail. To improve our schools. That's what we have to do. And I think that's what the American people want.  
  Well, again it's the same reason that the president is not. And I think--  
  --that Secretary Clinton is not. We have got to invest in the future. What we have got to do is address poverty in America, something that very few people talk about, and especially poverty in the African American community and the Latino community. And if you look at my record and if you look at my agenda, raising the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour, creating millions of jobs by rebuilding our infrastructure, focusing on high rates of youth unemployment. I think our candidacy is the candidacy talking to the issues of the African American community.  
  Well, look. This is what I think. That is looking at politics today as a zero-sum approach. And what I am trying to do in this country is to say, "You know what, in the last election, 63 percent of the American people didn't vote. 80 percent of young people didn't vote in the midterm election. That is why the rich get richer. And that is why billionaires are able to buy elections."  What we are trying to do say that in an American democracy, maybe it's a radical idea, but Congress should represent working families and the middle class rather than just wealthy campaign contributors. So Chuck, what I am trying to do now, is change the dynamics of American politics. Bring millions of young people, working-class people, in to stand up and fight for their rights. When you do that, yes, we can raise the minimum wage. We can create jobs. We can make public colleges and universities tuition-free. That is what we have got to do.  
  Well, obviously not. I'm running for president of the United States in the Democratic party. And by the way, when you talk about my relationship to the African American community, check out how many white public officials, elected officials, supported Jesse Jackson in 1988. I did. And he won my state of Vermont. He came to Vermont. Jesse Jackson is a friend of mine.  I thought he ran a brilliant campaign. But my view is right now, and the decision that I made, as the longest-serving independent in the history of the United States Congress, I said, "If we are going to win this race, we have to do it within the Democratic primary process." That's what we're doing.  
  Well, my reaction is that if Donald Trump wins and Mr. Bloomberg gets in, you're going to have two multi-billionaires running for president of the United States against me. And I think the American people do not want to see our nation move toward an oligarchy where billionaires control the political process. I think we'll win that election.  
  Thank you.  
