Speaker:Jeb Bush
Date: 20160206
Category: Debate
Occasion: 8th Republican presidential debate, St. Anselm College, Goffstown, NH
Source: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/07/us/politics/transcript-of-the-republican-presidential-debate-in-new-hampshire.html
 Chris, why don’t you mention my name so I can get into this.  
 ... I appreciate that, I really do, thank you.  
 Well, first of all he said the exact same thing about me, that I would make a great Vice Presidential nominee when Mitt Romney was considering. I said the same thing about Marco. I think we were both right at the time, and Mitt picked somebody else. So, let’s move on to the 2016 race. Who has the leadership skills...    
 ... Who has the leadership skills to lead? And, I’m proud of the fact that I have 12 Medal of Honor recipients, over 30 admirals and generals that believe that I would be a steady hand as Commander in Chief. That I serve as Governor of the state of Florida where we cut taxes and reduced government. I took on very powerful interests, forged consensus, fought for my beliefs, implemented them and the state was better off.  We had eight hurricanes and four tropical storms in 16 months. The whole state was turned upside down. It required a steady hand. Leadership. You learn this, you learn it by doing it. It’s not something that you just go up, and on the job do it.    
 It’s not the same. Look, let’s be clear. Marco Rubio is a gifted, gifted politician, and he may have the skills to be a President of the United States, but we’ve tried it the old way with Barack Obama, with soaring eloquence and we got — we didn’t get a leader we got someone who wants to divide the country up. The next President...    
 ... going to have to forge consensus to bring about a set of common purposes so that we can move forward again in this country...  
 ... this relates to strategic patience.    
 This relates to the strategic patience of the Obama administration. They come up with these great marketing terms, and what they do is they pull back, and voids are filled, and they’re now filled by asymmetric threats of terror, as well as nation-states on the run.  The next president of the United States is gonna have to get the United States back in the game, and if a preemptive strike is necessary to keep us safe, then we should do it.    
 Well, first of all, it’s interesting that that happened literally days when this hostage release took place in Iran. A day or two days afterwards, North Korea took a — held an American student hostage. I think it’s when we send a signal of weakness, when we are negotiating to release people that committed crimes in our country for people that didn’t commit crimes that are held hostage in Iran.  We saw the shameful treatment of our sailors, that this creates weakness — sends a signal of weakness around the world. The next president of the United States is going to have to get back in the game. Where the United States’ word matters. Where we back up our allies, where we don’t send signals of weakness. We need to use every — every influence possible to get this student back.  And I think John is right about this, there are crippling sanctions that are available, as it relates to the two or three banks that North Korea uses to — to — use it — illicit trade. We ought to re-establish sanctions, not just because of the student, but because of their actions that they’re taking right now, as it relates to building this missile capability.  
 Good evening.  
 The difference — the difference between eminent domain for public purpose — as Donald said, roads and infrastructure, pipelines and all that — that’s for public purpose. But what Donald Trump did was use eminent domain to try to take the property of an elderly woman on the strip in Atlantic City. That is not public purpose, that is down right wrong.    And here’s the problem with that. The problem was, it was to tear down — it was to tear down — it was to tear down the house...  
 And the net result was — you tried.  
 And you lost in the court.  
 That is not true. And the simple fact is to turn this into a limousine parking lot for his casinos is a not public use.    And in Florida, based on what we did, we made that impossible. It is part of our Constitution. That’s the better approach. That is the conservative approach.  
 How tough it is to take away property from an elderly woman?  
 How tough it is to take away a property from an elderly woman?  
 I consider it a public use.  
 It’s a public use. It’s a public use.  
 It’s a public use. 
 Yeah.  
 It’s a public use.  
 Established by the courts — federal, state courts.  
 I would like to see more millionaires. I think we need to grow more millionaires, we need create a prosperity society where people can rise up.    This notion that somehow we’re undertaxed as a nation is just fool hearty, when we have entitlements growing far faster than our ability to pay for it. A conservative, because that’s the point of this, believes in limited government, believes in a entrepreneurial capitalism and a strong national defense.  But it also has to be, we need to reform things. In my town hall meetings, I went to a place where a woman described her neighbor, who has a better economic deal by not working than her struggling to make ends meet. We need to be on the side of working people. And you know, the problem with the left is, another tax, another regulation, another mandate makes it harder for them to rise up.  Everything that we should do should be focused on high, sustained economic growth, where the middle class gets a raise for the first time, and where people are rewarded for work, rather than non-work. And I know how to do this. And if people are interested in the specifics of this, they ought to go to jeb2016.com.    
 I would. And I would do it in concert, again, with our Arab allies and with Europe, most particularly in this case. This is the lesson learned: in history, if you bomb something and not do anything as it relates to deal with the aftermath of this, if you don’t have a stable government, you get what we have in Libya.  And this is not — leading from behind is not an effective policy. We have to lead. Without the United States, nothing seems to work. Europe doesn’t have the ability to — to — to lead — forward lean  in this regard.  And so dealing with the caliphate is important, because it now has spawned other areas. There have been 70-plus attacks in 17 countries, either inspired by ISIS or organized by ISIS, Libya being the most important one now.  We have to deal with the caliphate, with building a Sunni army there, but we also have to deal with it in Libya. And I think the United States, ultimately, is going to play — play a significant role in this.  The problem with the Obama administration is that they see this incrementally. They’re reluctant. They don’t lead. No one knows whether we’re serious, and when we do it, we do it in increments you can barely see.    The United States has to lead in a much more aggressive way than we’re doing right now.  
 Martha and David, I just...  
 Martha and David...  
 No, no, I wouldn’t. No, I wouldn’t. And it was used sparingly, Congress has changed the laws and I — and I think where we stand is the appropriate place. But what we need to do is to make sure that we expand our intelligence capabilities.  The idea that we’re going to solve this fight with predator drones, killing people somehow is a — is more acceptable than capturing them, securing the information. This is why closing Guantanamo is a complete disaster. What we need to do is make sure that we are kept safe...    ... by having intelligence capabilities, both human and technological intelligence capabilities far superior than what we have today. That’s how you get a more safe place is by making sure that we’re fully engaged. And right now, this administration doesn’t do that.  
 Governor Bush, thank you.    Senator Rubio, I do want to ask you, you have said that you do not want to telegraph to the enemy what you would do as commander in chief. But for the American people watching tonight who want to know where the next president will stand, do you believe waterboarding is torture?
 This is a — this is an important subject. I agree with everything that’s been said here about repealing unconstitutional rules and rules that are creating real burdens for investing that creating jobs.  But we also ought to get back to being a Tenth Amendment country, as well, a country that respects the states to be able to make more decisions. And in the Bush administration, we would shift transportation dollars back to the states. I trust Kasich and Christie to build the roads and the infrastructure of their states than Washington, D.C.  EPA delegated authority, back to the states. Education dollars, back to the states. I would like to see reform take place all across the country, where there’s more vouchers, more freedom.    If we did that, we would shrink government’s power in Washington, D.C. and we would have a much more effective government, where people would begin to trust our government again, because now, no one believes it works.  
 You mentioned me. He mentioned me. One other thing that I think we ought to do, along with repealing Obamacare, we need to shift all of this power of healthcare, which is the most egregious form of federal power that is suppressing wages and incomes, and allow governors to have the Medicaid plans so that they can create 21st century Medicaid insurance for people that are stuck in poverty. There’s so much that can be done, but I don’t trust Washington to do it. I trust the state capitals to be the place — to be the source of innovation and reform in this country.    
 I didn’t mention him the second time.  
 ... Say it again?  
 ... I do, and I do think that we should not impose any kind of political agenda on the military. There should be — if women can meet the requirements, the minimum requirements for combat service they ought to have the right to do it. For sure. It ought to be focused on the morale as well. We got to make sure that we have readiness much higher than we do today. We need to eliminate the sequester which is devastating our military.  We can’t be focusing on the political side of this, we need to realize that our military force is how we project our word in the world. When we’re weak militarily it doesn’t matter what we say. We can talk about red lines, and ISIS being the J.V. team, and reset buttons and all this. If we don’t have a strong military than no one fears us, and they take actions that are against our national interest.  
 ... Why would they worry about it...  
 ... Well, the Draft’s not going to be reinstituted, but why — if women are accessing...  
 No. I didn’t say that. You — you asked a question not about the draft, you asked about registering. And if women are going to be...  
 If — but...  
 ... we don’t have a draft. I’m not suggesting we have a draft. What I’m suggesting is that we ought to have readiness being the first priority of our military, and secondly, that we make sure that the morale is high. And right now, neither one of those are acceptable because we’ve been gutting the military budget.  We also need to reform our procurement process. We need to make sure there are more men and women in uniform than people — than civilians in our Defense Department. There’s a lot of things that we need to reform to bring our defense capabilities into the 21st century and I’m the guy that could do that. That’s why I have the support of generals, of admirals, of 12 Medal of Honor recipients and many other people that know that I would be a steady commander-in-chief and rebuild our military.    
 I totally agree that we need to give veterans more choices. A veterans card to be able to go to a private provider will enhance the quality of the service inside the Department of Veterans Affairs. We need career civil service reform. Only three people were fired after waiting lists were dropped where veterans didn’t get care and people died. It is outrageous. And Hillary Clinton says that that’s acceptable? Because she is captive of the public service uniforms.  Career civil service reform would allow the next president to fire people that are — that are showing sheer incompetence. At a town hall meeting today, someone came — told a story of their father who looked like he was 85. He had — he got a bill eight years later from an operation he had, eight years it took. They couldn’t resolve the dispute and then he was told that he died. Literally, the Veterans Administration sent a death certificate to this guy and it took nine months to clarify the guy — I met him. He’s voting for me. And he is — likely to be alive.      This is — this is outrageous. It is completely outrageous. So, giving veterans more choices, creating centers of excellence, focusing on the true problems that exist. Dr. Carson is completely right. We need to start focusing on this earlier, before they become veterans so that there’s a customized plan so people don’t fall through the cracks. We can do this, but it’s going to require someone who has proven leadership skills to make it happen.    
 Look, I’m pro-life. In fact, on this stage, I’m the most pro-life person because I’ve acted on it for eight years as governor of the state of Florida.    
 Where we abolished partial-birth abortion, where parents have the right to be notified when their teenage child is having an abortion. We were the first state to do a choose life license plate to raise money for adoption. We were the first state to have state monies go to crisis pregnancy centers, which recently was just increased to $4 million a year.  We created greater regulation on abortion clinics, where there were horrific procedures. So I’m pro life, but I believe there should be exceptions: rape, incest and when the life of the mother is in danger. And so, that belief, and my consistency on this, makes me, I think, poised to be in the right place, the sweet spot for a Republican nominee. And others may have a different view and I respect it.   
 But I think we have to be cognizant of the fact there’s a lot of people that are concerned about having a pro-life position without any exceptions.    
 Peyton Manning is supporting me. And I’m for Denver.    
 I want to thank the people of New Hampshire, and I want to celebrate the birthday of a great president, Ronald Reagan would have been 105 today.    
 President Reagan believed in the future of our country, believed in its greatness, had a hopeful, optimistic message. Drew people towards our cause. We need someone who has a proven record to take our case to the American people because our philosophy is by far the best one. Limited government, entrepreneurial capitalism, of peace through strength. I believe I have the skills to take our party to victory in November.  I ask for your support on Tuesday to keep America, and make America a safer, stronger, and freer. Thank you all very much.    
