Speaker:Ben Carson
Date: 20160206
Category: Debate
Occasion: 8th Republican presidential debate, St. Anselm College, Goffstown, NH
Source: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/07/us/politics/transcript-of-the-republican-presidential-debate-in-new-hampshire.html
 Well, you know, when I wasn’t introduced No. 2, as was the plan, I thought maybe he thought I already had dropped out. But...    But you know, today is the 105th anniversary, or — 105th birthday of Ronald Reagan. His 11 Commandment was not to speak ill of another Republican. So, I’m not going to use this opportunity to savage the reputation of Senator Cruz.    But I will say — I will say — I will say that I was very disappointed that members of his team thought so little of me that they thought that after having hundreds, if not thousands of volunteers and college students who sacrificed their time and were dedicated to the cause — one even died — to think that I would just walk away ten minutes before the caucus and say, “Forget about you guys.”
 I mean, who would do something like that? Now, I don’t think anyone on this stage would do something like that. And to assume that someone would, what does that tell you? So, unfortunately, it did happen.  It gives us a very good example of certain types of Washington ethics. Washington ethics. Washington ethics basically says, if it’s legal, you do what you need to do in order to win. That’s not my ethics. My ethics is, you do what’s right.  
 Since I was mentioned...  
 This is great you guys. I want you all to mention me when you say something.    In fact, the time line indicates that initial tweet from CNN was followed by another one within one minute that clarified that I was not dropping out. So, what happened to that one, it is unclear. But the bottom line is, we can see what happened, everybody can see what happened and you can make your own judgment.  
 Good evening.  
 Well, thank you. You know, I was hoping to get a chance to talk about North Korea. I was the only one who didn’t get to do that, and I’ve got stuff to say about it, let me tell you.  But at any rate, you have to replace it with something that makes sense. It doesn’t make sense. And the reason that I dislike Obamacare is because the government comes in and tells the people — which the nation is supposed to be centered on — that we don’t care what you think, this is what we’re doing. And if you don’t like it, too bad. That’s a problem. And we can’t afford to do that because that will fundamentally change America.  I have proposed a health empowerment account system. Everybody gets a health empowerment account the day they are born, they keep it until they die. They can pass it on. We pay for it with the same dollars that we pay for traditional health care with, recognizing that we spend twice as much as many countries per capita and health care and don’t have as such access.  We give people the ability to shift money within their health empowerment account so that each family basically becomes its own insurance company without a middleman; that saves you a awful lot of money. And that will lower the cost of your catastrophic insurance tremendously, because the only thing coming out of that is catastrophic health care.  And then in terms of taking care of the indigent, we have another whole system, and I can go ahead and explain it, but I don’t have the time, but I’d be happy to if you give me some more time. But go to my website bencarson.com, read about it. You can read about everything that’s been discussed here in great detail.    
 I want to say something about this, because I’m not here just to add beauty to the stage.  Highlights From the Eighth Republican Debate The last Republican presidential debate before the New Hampshire primary, on Tuesday.    Ben Carson and the Awkward Debate Opening   Rubio Thrown Off Balance by Christie’s Attack   Back After This Commercial Break   Marco Rubio Goes After Hillary Clinton on Issue of Abortion Follow the latest on Facebook or Twitter or by email.   You know, I’ve been talking about Libya for quite a long time. I think I was the first one to start talking about it because I say we have to have a proactive foreign policy strategy. And of course, the next place that ISIS is going to attack to is Libya.  If you want to expand your caliphate and increase your influence, then you’re going to go to a place that’s strategically located. You go north, across the Mediterranean. You’re into southern Europe. You go south, you’re into Chad and Sudan and Niger. Not to mention the fact that you have much more oil than you do in Iraq. That’s the kind of place that they’re going to go to, therefore, we need to be thinking about how do we prevent them from tacking over there. They’re already sending their fighters there, we need to be consulting with our military experts and asking them what do they need in order to prevent ISIS from being able to take over Libya. That’s going to have enormous concede for us.  
 I would support the possibility of renewed airstrikes if in conjunction with our Joint Chiefs and our military people they felt that was an appropriate strategy.  The fact of the matter is none of us up here is a military expert, and we sometimes act like we are, but we’re not. And if we actually sit down and talk with them and get them to understand our plan and their impression of what needs to be done, I think we’re going to make a lot more progress.  
 It’s the same question?  
 Yes. Well, first of all, I think it would be a pretty easy contrast, quite frankly, between myself and Hillary Clinton. In one case, you have someone who is known as a deceitful individual. An individual who at Benghazi, which I will never let go, quite frankly, because I think of those two men who went up there on the top of that compound with machine guns, firing away, allowing their colleagues to escape.  And I’m sure, in the back of their mind, they were just saying, if we can just hold on, help is on the way. But help was not on the way. When did we in the United States not send people to help our own people? You know, this is not who we are.    
 And — I would simply make it a referendum on honesty and integrity versus deceit and the Washington way.  
 Well, you know, it’s not a simple issue, and now, you know, we’ve gotten evidence that there can been active viruses in other bodily fluids like saliva and urine. So, this is going to be, obviously, a big deal.  Do we quarantine people? If we have evidence that they are infected, and that there is evidence that that infection can spread by something that they’re doing, yes. But, just willy-nilly going out and quarantining a bunch of people because they’ve been to Brazil, I don’t believe that that’s going to work. What we really need to be thinking about is how do we get this disease under control?  And this is where we need rapid response. We need a rapid response for ebola, we need rapid response for Zika, there will be other things that will come up. These are the kinds of things that the NIH, the CDC, can be very effective in. We need to give the the appropriate support for those kind of things.  
 Can I say something...  
 Something about the draft. Very quickly.  
 You know, 14 percent decrease in the number of people applying for voluntary military service, and I think part of it is because of the way that we treat our veterans. You know, we wouldn’t be a free country if it wasn’t for them, and we have 22 veterans per day committing suicide.  So, I think what we should do is have an external support system for people once they volunteer and it should follow them throughout their career, should follow them for three years, five years afterwards, a year before they get out, should be working on integrating them back into society, so that they quit on Friday and they start their new job. They should have health empowerment accounts that are subsidized so they can go to any medical facility and be taken care of. They can go to a V.A. if they want to.  But if we start taking care of our veterans the right way, we won’t have to ever worry about a draft again.    
 With 100 percent certainly, I will predict the winner — it will either be Denver or Carolina.  
 For many months, the political class, pundits, the media, have tried to ignore or bury me. They say that politics is too complex, and too sleazy. You can’t survive. Well, guess what? I’m still here, and I’m not going any place either.  And, I believe there is still a place in our country for faith, integrity, and common sense. Hundreds of thousands of you drafted me to run for president...   
 ... And, I am going to with the help of God, and you, once again place the American people at the pinnacle with the government there to serve it.    
