Speaker:Ben Carson
Date: 20160213
Category: Debate
Occasion: 9th Republican debate in Greenville, SC
Source: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/02/13/the-cbs-republican-debate-transcript-annotated/
 Well, the current constitution actually doesn't address that particular situation, but the fact of the matter is the Supreme Court, obviously, is a very important part of our governmental system. And, when our constitution was put in place, the average age of death was under 50, and therefore the whole concept of lifetime appointments for Supreme Court judges, and federal judges was not considered to be a big deal.  Obviously that has changed, and it's something that probably needs to be looked at pretty carefully at some point. But, we need to start thinking about the divisiveness that is going on in our country. I looked at some of the remarks that people made after finding out that Justice Scalia had died, and they were truly nasty remarks. And, that we have managed to get to that position in our country is truly a shame. And, we should be thinking about how we could create some healing in this land.  But, right now, we're not going to get healing with President Obama. That's very United Nationsclear. So, I...    
 ... Fully agree that we should not allow a judge to be appointed during his time.  
 No, it isn't. First of all, let me go back to your first question for me. It wasn't phrased as who gets to nominate Supreme Court appointees, of course that's the president. So I know that there are some left wing media who would try to make hay on that.  Secondly, thank you for including me in the debate. Two questions already. This is great. Now, as far...      As far as those two a.m. phone calls are concerned, judgment is what is required. And the kinds of things that you come up with are some sometimes very, very difficult and very unique. One of the things that I was known for is doing things that have not been done before. So no amount of experience really prepares you to do something that has never been done before. That's where judgment comes in.  And that, I think, is a situation that we're in right now, a situation that we have never been in before with the kinds of threats that pose real danger to our nation, and it comes in very handy in those situations.  
 Well, first of all, let me just address the Iraq question.  You know, I was not particularly in favor of us going to war in Iraq, primarily because I have studied, you know, the Middle East, recognizing that those are nations that are ruled by dictators and have been for thousands of years. And when you go in and you remove one of those dictators, unless you have an appropriate plan for replacing them, you're going to have chaos.  Now, fortunately, we were able to stabilize the situation, and it was the current administration that turned tail and ran and destabilized the situation.    Now, having said that, in terms of the rules of engagement, I was talking about, you know, Obama has said, you know, we shouldn't bomb tankers, you know, coming out of refineries because there may be people in there, or because the environment may be hurt.  You know, that's just asinine thinking. And the fact of the matter is...    You know, we -- obviously, you're not going to accomplish all of your goals without some collateral damage. You have to be able to assess what is acceptable and what is not.  
 Well, first of all, let me just mention on the tax issue. Ben Carson.com, go read about it because my tax plan has been praised by Kato, by Wall Street Journal. Forbes said it is the best, the most pro-growth tax plan, and it's based on real fairness for everybody. Starts at the 150% poverty level, but even the people below that have to pay something because everybody has to have skin in the game, and the millions of people can't, you know, talk about what other people have to pay and have no skin in the game.  And, it deals with corporate tax rate, and makes it the same as everybody else...    
 ... Everybody pays exactly the same.  
 ... And, as far as Medicare and MedicAid, my main goal is to get rid of Obamacare, and put the care back in the hands of ...  
 Well, first of all, please go to my website, Bencarson.com and read my immigration policy, OK? Because it actually makes sense.  Now, the -- as far as these fines are concerned, you know? Here's the big problem. We've got all these government regulators, and all they're doing is running around looking for people to fine. And, we've got 645 different federal agencies, and sub-agencies. Way, way too many, and they don't have anything else to do.  I think what we really need to do is start trimming the regulatory agencies rather than going after the people who are trying to increase the viability, economic viability of our society. Now, that doesn't mean there aren't some people out there who are doing bad things. But, I'm not sure that the way to solve that problem is by increasing all the regulatory burden. You know, when you consider how much regulations cost us each year, you know? $2 trillion dollars per family, $24,000 per family, that happens to be the same level as the poverty level...    
 ... For a family of four. If you want to get rid of poverty, get rid of all the regulations.  
 Before you ask the question, can I respond to the -- you know, they mentioned my name a couple of times.  
 Alright. Well, first of all, you know, so many people have said to me, "You need to scream and jump and down -- jump up and down like everybody else." Is that really what you want? What we just saw? I don't think so.  And you know, I -- when I got into this race, I decided to look under the hood of the engine of what runs Washington, D.C., and my first inclination was to run away, but I didn't do it because I'm thinking about our children and fact that we are the United States of America. And anybody up here is going to be much better than what's going to come on the other side. And what happened tonight with -- with Justice Scalia tells you that we cannot afford to lose this election and we cannot be tearing each other down.    
 Well, first of all, I'm not a politician, so I'm never going to become a politician. But here's what -- here's what people need to know. People need to know that free college is not -- it's a non-starter. You know, you have to look at our economic situation. We're on the verge of economic collapse and, you know, we're -- it's not just the $19 trillion, but it's also the $200 trillion in unfunded liabilities.  What we need to think about is what does that do to the average person? When we have a debt of that nature, it causes the Fed to change their policy, it causes the central bank to keep the -- the rates low, and who does does that affect? Mr. Average, who used to go to the bank every Friday and put part of his check in the bank and watch it grow over three decades and be able to retire with a nice nest egg, that's gone. That part of the American dream is gone.  All of these things are disappearing, and Bernie Sanders and people like Hillary Clinton blame it on the rich. They say those evil rich people, if we take their money we can solve the problem. It's not the evil rich people. It's the irresponsible evil government.    
 This is the first generation not expected to do better than their parents. Some people say it's the new normal, but there's nothing normal about it in an exceptional American. I, like you, am a member of we, the people, and we know that our country is heading off the cliff.  Joseph Stalin said if you want to bring America down you, have to undermine three things: our spiritual life, our patriotism and our morality. We, the people, can stop that decline, starting right here in South Carolina. If all the people who say, "I love Ben Carson and his policies, but he can't win," vote for me, not only can we win, but we can turn this thing around.  You know, we have this manipulation by the political class and by the media telling us who we're supposed to pick and how we're supposed to live. We, the people, are the only people who will determine that. And if you elect me as your next president, I promise you that you will get somebody who is accountable to everybody and beholden to no one. Thank you.    
