Speaker:Hillary Clinton
Date: 20160125
Category: Debate
Occasion: Democratic Primary Debate, Des Moines, IA
Source: http://cnnpressroom.blogs.cnn.com/2016/01/26/cnn-iowa-democratic-presidential-town-hall-rush-transcript/
  I am not going to let the Republicans rip up Obamacare.  
  We're getting into that period before the caucus that I kind of call the "let's get real" period.    
  How are you?     
  Great to see you!     Hi everybody.     
  Well, I was really touched and gratified when I saw that. You know, people here in Iowa remember we ran a really hard race against each other, and then I had the opportunity when he asked me to serve as a Secretary of State.     And, it not only was a great working relationship, but it turned into a real friendship, and he knows how hard the jobs is. He knows it first hand. So, I really appreciated what he said, and how he said it because it was a positive reflection on what we have to get done, and how hard it's going to be, and therefore the stakes in the election are really high. And, I think that's what voters are beginning to really tune in to starting here in Iowa.     
 Yes, that was surprising.          
 You know, I really appreciated him saying that because he said that - he had that great line which I love. I think he said something like, you know, she had to do - he said I was like Fred Astaire and she had to do everything I had to do, only she was Ginger Rogers doing it backwards in high heels. And, I thought that was a really...          
 ...  A very cute  remark.     But, you know, I understand that you get into the arena, and you are going to get pummeled, and pushed, and criticized. I wouldn't be doing it if I didn't think it was absolutely necessary to try to build on the progress that we've made. That we've made under President Obama against great odds, and that we've got to do everything we possibly can not to let the Republicans rip away the progress and turn us backwards.     That would be such a loss for our country. We need to build on it, and go further, and that's what I'm trying to do with my campaign in talking about all the issues that I think are on the minds of all the people I talk to across the state.     
 ...  Right...     
 Right.     
  Look, it's a great country, despite what one of the Republicans says. It's a great country, and we are all on the Democratic side having a spirited debate about the issues we care about. I'm so proud you've seen my two Democratic opponents, and the three of us have run a campaign talking about the differences we have on issues. That's totally fair, that's what we want you to know.     The other side is not talking issues, they're talking insults. So, I'm proud of the campaign we've run, and what we've put out there before the American people.     And, it's a tough campaign, and it should be because it's the hardest job in the world. You have to pick a president, and a commander in chief, and you want to really vet the people that are running, and I'm really having a good time going around talking, and listening to folks. And, on Monday the people in Iowa get to be the first people in the world, Chris, to express an opinion about who should be president, and commander in chief, and what they want to see as our nominee to go up against the Republicans.     
 OK.     
  Let me help you up here.     
  Well, I think it really depends upon who you're seeing and talking to.  You know today in Oskaloosa I spent time with about 10 high school students who are enthusiastically working for me.  I see young people across the state who are doing the same.  But I'm totally happy to see young people involved in any way.  That's what we want.     And we want to have a good primary to pick a nominee.  And then we want to have everybody join together to make sure we win in November, which after all is the purpose...          ... of this whole campaign.  And so...          You know look, I've been around a long time.  People have thrown all kinds of things at me.  And you know I can't keep up with it.  I just keep going forward.     They fall by the wayside.  They come up with these outlandish things.  They make these charges.  I just keep going forward because there's nothing to it.  They throw all this stuff at me and I'm still standing.     But if you're new to politics, if it's the first time you really paid attention, you go oh my gosh, look at all of this.  And you have to say to yourself, why are they throwing all of that?     Well, I'll tell you why.  Because I've been on the front lines of change and progress since I was your age.  I have been fighting to give kids and women...          ... and the people who are left out and left behind a chance to make the most out of their own lives.  And I've taken on the status quo time and time again.     I have had many, many millions of dollars spent against me.  When I worked on health care back in 1993 and 1994, and I don't know if you were born then.  I can't quite tell.          But if you'd been around and had been able to pay attention, I was trying to get us to universal health care coverage, working with my husband.     Boy, the insurance companies, the drug companies, they spent millions.  Not just against the issue, but against me.  And I kept going.     And when we weren't successful, I turned around and said at least we're going to get health care for kids.  And we got the Children's Health Insurance Program working with both Democrats and Republicans.  And eight million kids have insurance because of that today.          So you got to keep going.  You can't give up.  You can never get knocked off course.     That's my hope for you and for all the young people who are getting involved this first time.  Don't get discouraged.  It's hard.  If it were easy, hey, there wouldn't be any contest.  But it's not easy.     There are very different visions, different values, different forces at work.  And you have to have somebody who is a proven, proven fighter.  Somebody who has taken them on and won and kept going, and will do that as president.  That's why I hope you'll reconsider.            
  Great.     
  Well, I have the greatest respect for the vice president.  But I think it's fair to say that I have a 40-year record of going after inequality.  And not only economic inequality: racial inequality, sexist inequality, homophobic inequality.  The kinds of things that go after people to put them down and push them back.     So since I was a young lawyer my first job in the Children's Defense Fund, I took on the problem of juveniles in adult jails.  What kind of inequality can you imagine that's worse than that, taking a child and putting them in with adult prisoners?  And we went right after that to change that.     I went after schools that were being turned into private schools that were really there because they wanted to escape integration in the south.  I went by myself down to Alabama to do investigations because again, inequality stalks our education system.     I was on the Legal Services Corporation.  I chaired the board.  Inequality's also about not being able to get a lawyer.  You can't afford them.  You can't stand up and have your voice heard and have your case adjudicated.     So I have a really long history of taking on all kinds of inequality.  And when I went to Beijing in 1995 and said human rights were women's rights and women's rights were human rights that was a statement about inequality: economic inequality, education inequality, cultural inequality...          ... every kind of inequality you can imagine.          Now, when you focus just narrowly on economic inequality, I've also been in that fight.  I was in that fight during my husband's administration.  And let's remember what happened there.     At the end of eight years, we not only had 23 million new jobs, what was most important is incomes grew for everybody, not just those at the top, more people were lifted out of poverty, incomes rose, in the middle and working people.     And today in Knoxville, in my town hall, I called on a man.  He said, we never had it so good except when your husband was president.  Because we tackled income equality and produced results, not talk, action.  And that's what I will do as president.          
  OK.  I'll try not to.          
  Hi.     
  Thank you.  Thank you.          
  I'll tell you what.  I want to start by saying thank you for asking about foreign policy because you're absolutely right.  In fact, President Obama in his interview said something about that.  He said, you know, you don't get to the pick the issues you work on when you're president, a lot of them come at you.     They come in the door whether you open it or not, and even gave the example of working on a State of the Union, being at the desk in the Oval Office when one of his aids came in and said, the Iranians have just captured two of our naval vessels and have taken our sailors prisoner.     You can't say, oh, OK, don't bother me now, I'll deal with that later.  You have got to immediately be able to switch gears.  You've got to do all aspects of the job.     So let me tell you how I think about it.  I think it's imperative you do your very best, every president, and certainly, I will, to avoid military action.  It should be the last resort, not the first choice, to use diplomacy, even if it's slow, boring, hard to continue to persist and be patient to get results.     And that you also should use the enormous capabilities that we have to project our values around the world, our cultural values, our freedoms, our human rights, and respect for the dignity of all people.     I want to give you two quick examples.  When I became secretary of state, what President Obama and I found was that the Iranians were on their way to a nuclear weapons program.  This despite all of the bluster from the George W. Bush-Dick Cheney administration.     They had mastered the nuclear fuel cycle.  They had built covert facilities.  And they had stocked them with centrifuges that were rapidly whirling along trying to create enough highly enriched uranium to have a weapon.     Now our choices were, oh, my gosh, just fulminate about it, or turn our backs and just figure out that somebody else is going to do something, or try to get up a new strategy.  We chose the third.     We said, look, we've got to get the world behind us to force them to the negotiating table.  So I spent 18 months putting together the coalition that imposed international sanctions on the Iranians that forced them, finally, to begin negotiating with us to get an end to their nuclear weapons program, to put a lid on it.     It took 18 months to get the sanctions.  It took me about another year to travel around the world convincing other countries to actually obey the sanctions.  And then I began the negotiations, testing whether the Iranians would actually come and seriously negotiate.     And then Secretary Kerry and the president did a great job bringing the agreement into fruition.     You cannot - you cannot imagine how tense it was because a lot of our friends and partners in the region basically just wanted to end that program by bombing them.  Just bomb them.  Send them back a couple of years.  Just stop it.     I spent a lot of my time explaining to our friends why that was not a good idea.     And we got the negotiation successfully done.  We did put the lid on.     So that's how I thought about it.     Another quick example.     We had another unfortunate spate of rockets going from Gaza into Israel in 2012.  I'm on the phone with the Israelis.  They're trying to knock them out of the sky with their missile defense system.  But they're still landing and everybody is really worried that, you know, one of them is going to hit a big group of people, take out a big building somewhere.     So the Israelis are telling me, look, we've got to go back in.  We have to have a ground invasion again in Gaza.     I'm saying, no, please, don't do that.  Let's try to figure out how do we resolve it?     We don't think we can resolve it.     I flew from Cambodia, where I was with the president, to Israel, middle of the night, go see the Israeli cabinet, work with them on what they would accept as an offer, go see the Palestinian president, work with him to make sure he'd back it up, go back to Jerusalem, finalize the deal, fly to Cairo, meet with President Morsy, the Muslim Brotherhood president of Egypt, hammer out the agreement, announce it at about an hour before the deadline that we were facing.     They got a cease-fire.  There was no invasion.  That's what you have to do.     So every situation is different.  So I want to make sure I stay as close as possible to the non-intervention.  That's why I say no American ground troops in Syria or Iraq.  Special Forces, trainers, yes.  Planes to bomb, yes.  No ground forces.     Every part of this has to be done in accordance with our values, our interests and our security and partnership with other countries.     
  Um-hmm.     
  Um-hmm.     
  Well, first of all, I have a much longer history than one vote, which I've said was a mistake because of the way that that was done and how the Bush administration handled it.     But I think the American public has seen me exercising judgment in a lot of other ways.  And, in fact, when that hard primary campaign was over and I went to work for President Obama and he ended up asking me to be secretary of State, it was because he trusted my judgment.     And we worked side by side over those four years.     And think about where we were when he became president.  As I just said, Iran on the way to a nuclear weapon, which would have destabilized the entire Middle East, created an arms race the likes of which we have never seen.     We had hundreds of thousands of American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Our best allies and friends in Europe and Asia were really put out with us because of the way they'd been treated by the Bush administration and were very skeptical that the United States was a good ally any longer and wanted to lead the world toward peace, prosperity and security.     I spent so much of my time getting back the confidence and the trust of our friends and allies around the world.     So I think we made a lot of progress.     Now, do we have a terrorist threat?     Yes.  We had a terrorist threat on 9/11, before President Obama took office.  Yes, we were attacked.  So this is not something new.  This is a long-term challenge.  That's why I've laid out a plan to defeat ISIS and the radical jihadist terrorist networks that I think has the best chance of achieving that.     There is no time in human history where everything is going well.  And we now live in a very interconnected world where we know everything that is going on and where people look to the United States to help.     So we have to be leading.  And that means we've got to be smart about how we try to assert our power so that it is constructive, makes a difference and does lead to greater peace and prosperity.     But I am very proud of my record as secretary of State and what we accomplished, not only on specific trouble spots, but advancing women's rights, advancing gay rights, advancing religious freedom, Internet freedom and so many of the other values that we hold dear.          
  Hi.     
  Thank you.          And thank you for your service in the military.     
  And one of the...          One of the most distressing aspects of this campaign has been the language of Republican candidates, particularly their frontrunner, that insults, demeans, denigrates different people.  He has cast a wide net.  He started with Mexicans.  He's currently on Muslims.  But I found it particularly harmful the way he has talked about Muslims, American Muslims and Muslims around the world.  And I have called him out continuously about that.     It's not only shameful and contrary to our values to say that people of a certain religion should never come to this country, or to claim that there are no real people of the Muslim faith who share our values, and to have the kind of dismissive and insulting approach.  It's not only shameful and offensive, which it is.  I think it's dangerous.  And it's dangerous in several ways.     It's dangerous because American Muslims deserve better.  And now their children and they are the target of Islamophobia, of threats.  I've met a number of parents who said their children are afraid to go to school because they are worried about how they will be treated.     And we cannot tolerate this.  And we must stand up and say every person in this country deserves to be treated with respect.  And we must stand up against the...          ... bullying...          But there's another element to this that I want to mention.  I was recently in Minneapolis where I met with a big group of Somali-Americans.  And I sat down and talked with them, and they shared some of the very same concerns you just did.     But they are also on the front lines of trying to protect their children from radicalization.  They are in the front lines in Minneapolis of working with law enforcement to make sure that what they see and hear they report in case there are any problems.     We have to protect ourselves in America in a unified way.  That means making sure our Muslim friends and neighbors are part of us.  They are with us.  They are on the front lines of defending themselves, their families, their children and all the rest of us.     And the same is true with Muslims around the world.  We need a coalition that includes Muslim nations to defeat ISIS.  And it's pretty hard to figure out how you're going to make a coalition with the very nations you need if you spend your time insulting their religion.     So we need to stand up...          ... and point out how wrong this is.          
  Hi.     
  That I want to be the president for everyone.  And I believe that is exactly what any president should do.     You know, Chris Cuomo's father said one of the smartest things.  He said many, many smart things about politics.  But you might remember he said "you campaign in poetry, you govern in prose."     You know, you can say all the kinds of things you want in a campaign.  And we are drawing distinctions with the Republicans, and we should because I have very deep disagreements, as I just pointed out, with a lot of what they're saying and doing.     But, once the election is over we must come together to work to solve the problems facing our country. That is what I did. I did it as a First Lady when I worked, as I said, to get the children's health insurance program. I did it to reform the foster care and adoption system with one of the most partisan Republicans in the house, Tom DeLay. I did it when I was in the Senate.     And, nearly every Republican I served with co-sponsored legislation that I introduced, and we worked to pass. And, I did it as Secretary of State. Reaching out, talking with Republicans all the time about what we were doing, enlisting their support, getting their advice.     So, I know in order to deal with the problems I want to, to get the economy working, creating more good jobs, getting in comes rising, making sure we build on the affordable care act. Get costs down, but improve it, get to 100% coverage. Everything I want to do, I want to start from the belief that we can find common ground, and that is exactly what I intend to do.     And, I see my friend Tom Harkin sitting there, and he knows from his years in the Congress, you always have to hope you can find common ground. You got to bring people together like he did. The Americans With Disabilities Act, what an amazing accomplishment.          
 Right.     
 Yes.     
 ...  Well...     
 Yeah, well, Chris, it was kind of tongue-in-cheek, and I consider them more the adversaries because they are. They have their set of objectives, we have ours in the Democratic side. But, that's why I gave you a short overview. I work with all of them.     You know, when I'm actually in office, they say really nice things about me.          
 We have a whole long list of the nice things they say, what a good colleague I am, how easy I am to work with, how willing I am to try to find common ground. And, then when I run, Oh my goodness it's just unbelievable.          
 So, I have no - I have no problem in saying, yeah, we have political differences. We're on opposite sides. But, we're going to work as hard as we can, and here's what I know about how to get that done.     It takes building relationships, and that is one of the hardest things to do in politics over ideological and partisan lines. So, I'm going to be just giving them all bear hugs whether they like it or not. We're going to get together, we're going to talk about what we can do. Maybe we can get something done together, if not, maybe I can find that slice of common ground to find somebody who will work with me on achieving a goal that we want.     So, that's the way the process should work, constantly looking for ways to make a difference and putting together the coalitions within the congress to pass laws.     
 Well, I don't know, I came out pretty well so I think it'd be very...          
 ...  It would be very gracious of me to go back and talk to them.          
 Hi.     
 Well, look. This is only still an issue because the Republicans want to keep it an issue.          
 They know it, I know it. And, I think it's very easy to answer, and as the gentleman who stood up before said, if you watched any of it, I answered every question. And, at the end of it, the Chairman said, "No, we didn't learn anything new."     No, well, because there was nothing new to learn. Why? Because there had already been eight investigations. Most of them by Republicans in the Congress. The House Intelligence Committee, the House Armed Services Committee, and what did they conclude? That there were problems that night, but they were ones that we should look at not from the perspective of placing blame or pointing fingers.  But how do we make sure that never happens again?     That is what I said immediately after it happened.  That’s why I put together an independent board to tell me as secretary of State what I needed to know and what we could do to fix it.  And I accepted all 29 of their recommendations.  And we were on the way to implementing them when I left, and that has continued.     So I am well aware that for partisan political purposes this continues.  But let me tell you why this makes me not - it makes me sad.  It makes me sad because we’ve had terrorist attacks many times before in our country, haven’t we?  And we’ve had American, both civilians and military personnel the subject of attacks.     When Ronald Reagan was president in 1983, our Marine barracks, our embassy were attacked in Beirut.  More than 250 Americans were killed.  The Democrats didn’t make that a partisan issue.  We were horrified.  We were heartsick that Americans doing the work they were sent to do, civilians and military, were murdered by terrorists.     So, the Democratic Congress worked with the Republican president to say what can we do?  How do we fix this?     Fast forward.  My husband was president.  Al-Qaeda attacked two of our embassies in Tanzania and Kenya.  Car bombs blew them up, killed 12 Americans and hundreds of Kenyans and Tanzanians.     Madeline Albright was secretary.  She said we got to get to the bottom of this.  She did the same as I did, commission an independent report.  When the report came out she made it public.  I made the report I commissioned public.  That’s the only two times those reports have ever been made public.     So again, it was terrible.  What can we do?  How can we fix it?  It wasn’t the subject of this kind of partisan, media-driven attack.  People wanted to come together.     And even after 9/11 when nearly 3,000 Americans and others who were working in New York City, the Pentagon, on that plane that crashed in Pennsylvania, were killed, we formed a commission.  We said what went wrong?  What can we learn?  And then we moved on to try and do better.     So look, I understand that they will try to make this an issue.  I will continue to answer.  And my best defense is the truth.  And that’s what you will hear from now until I am elected president.          
  Well, I think that they’re - you know, look, I was delighted to get the Register’s endorsement.  And it was a very generous one.  And yes, I think that’s a fair criticism.     You know I had no intention of doing anything other than having a convenient way of communicating, and it turned out not to be so convenient.  So again, we’ve answered every question and we will continue to do so.     But you know maybe being faster, trying to scramble around to find out what all of this means, I probably should have done that quicker.     
  No.  I’m not willing to say it was an error in judgment because what - nothing that I did was wrong.  It was not - it was not in any way prohibited.  And so…     
  Well, apologizing sooner, as soon as you can.  But part of the problem, and I would just say this as, not an excuse but just as an explanation.     When you’re facing something like that you got to get the facts.  And it takes time to get the facts.  And so when I said hey, take all my emails, make them public.  That had never been done before, ever by anybody.  And so we’ve been sorting our way through this because it is kind of a unique situation.     I’m happy people are looking at the emails.  Some of them are you know, frankly a little embarrassing…          You know.  You find out that sometimes I’m not the best on technology and things like that.  But look, I think it’s great.  Let people sort them through.  And as we have seen there is a lot of - you know a lot of interest.  But it’s something that took time to get done.     
  OK.     
  OK.     
  I think that's great.  I think that's fabulous.  I loved it.          
  You know, look, you campaign in poetry, you govern in prose.  And we need a lot more poetry in this campaign and in our country.  So, I applaud that.  I love the feeling.  I love the energy.     I obviously respect Senator Sanders greatly and appreciate what he has done in this campaign.     But I believe that I'm the better person to be the Democratic nominee, and to be the president and commander-in-chief of the country because…          
  Great.     BRETT ROSENGREN, 
  It's OK.     
  OK.     
  OK.  Sorry, President Obama, sorry, Bill, Abraham Lincoln.  Abraham Lincoln.     You know, I - wow, when I think about his challenges, they paled in comparison to anything we have faced or can imagine.  You know, more Americans died in the Civil War than, you know, the wars of the 20th Century put together.     So here was a man who was a real politician.  I mean, he was a great statesman, but he also understood politics.  And he had to work to put together, you know, the support he needed to be able to hold the country together during the war.     And while he was prosecuting that war to keep the Union together, he was building America, which I found just an astonishing part of his legacy.  The transcontinental rail system, land grant colleges, he was thinking about the future while in the middle of trying to decide which general he can trust to try to finish the war.     That's what I mean, when you've got to do a lot of things at once, what could be more overwhelming than trying to wage and win a civil war?     And yet, he kept his eye on the future and he also tried to keep summoning up the better angels of our nature.  You know, he was willing to reconcile and forgive.  And I don't know what our country might have been like had he not been murdered, but I bet that it might have been a little less rancorous, a little more forgiving and tolerant, that might possibly have brought people back together more quickly.     But instead, you know, we had Reconstruction, we had the re-instigation of segregation and Jim Crow.  We had people in the South feeling totally discouraged and defiant.  So, I really do believe he could have very well put us on a different path.     And, as I say, our challenges are nothing like what he faced, but let's think ourselves about not only what we have to do right now, especially to get the income rising in America, especially to make college affordable, do something about student debt, keep health care growing until we get 100 percent coverage and so much else.     But let's also think about how we do try to summon up those better angels, and to treat each other, even when we disagree, fundamentally disagree, treat each other with more respect, and agree to disagree more civilly, and try to be inspired by, I think, the greatest of our presidents.          
  Thank you.     
  Thanks, Chris.  Great to see you.     
  You doing OK?     
  Good.     
