Speaker:Ted Cruz
Date: 20160225
Category: Debate
Occasion: 10th Republican debate in Houston
Source: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/02/25/the-cnntelemundo-republican-debate-transcript-annotated/
 Welcome to Texas.    Here, Texas provided my family with hope. Here, my mom became the first in her family ever to go to college. Here, my dad fled Cuba and washed dishes, making 50 cents an hour to pay his way through the University of Texas. I graduated from high school at Second Baptist not too far away from here.  
 When I ran for Senate, I promised 27 million Texans I would fight for you every day, and not for the Washington bosses.  And, I'll tell you, as I travel the state, Democrats tell me I didn't vote for you, but you're doing what you said you would do. And, as president, I will do the same.    
 You know, the people that get forgotten in this debate over immigration are the hardworking men and women of this country -- our millions of Americans who are losing their jobs. Millions of legal immigrants who are losing their jobs are seeing their wages driven down.  You know, in the past couple of weeks the Wall Street Journal had a very interesting article about the state of Arizona. Arizona put in very tough laws on illegal immigration, and the result was illegal immigrants fled the state, and what's happened there -- it was a very interesting article.  Some of the business owners complained that the wages they had to pay workers went up, and from their perspective that was a bad thing. But, what the state of Arizona has seen is the dollars they're spending on welfare, on prisons, and education, all of those have dropped by hundreds of millions of dollars. And, the Americans, and for that matter, the legal immigrants who are in Arizona, are seeing unemployment drop are seeing wages rise. That's who we need to be fighting for.  Listen, we have always welcomed legal immigrants, but I think it is a mistake to forgive those who break the law to allow them to become U.S. citizens, and that's why I've led the fight against granting citizenship to those here illegally, and that's why I will do the same thing as president.    
 Well, existing law provides that those who are deported cannot come back here legally. U.S. citizens can come back. That's existing law.  But let me say, Wolf, I really find it amazing that Donald believes that he is the one who discovered the issue of illegal immigration. I can tell you, when I ran for Senate here in the state of Texas, I ran promising to lead the fight against amnesty, promising to fight to build a wall. And in 2013, when I was fight against the "gang of eight" amnesty bill, where was Donald? He was firing Dennis Rodman on "Celebrity Apprentice."    
 And indeed, if you look at the "gang of eight," one individual on this stage broke his promise to the men and women who elected him and wrote the amnesty bill.  
 If you look at the eight members of the Gang of Eight, Donald gave over $50,000 to three Democrats and two Republicans. And when you're funding open border politicians, you shouldn't be surprised when they fight for open borders.  And I think if you want to know who actually will secure the borders and follow through, you ought to ask who has a record before they were a candidate for president of fighting to secure the borders and stop amnesty. And I'm the only one on this stage that has that record. And by the way, Marco is exactly right that a federal court found Donald guilty of being part of a conspiracy to hire people illegally and entered a $1 million judgment against him.    
 You know, I actually think Donald is right. He is promising if he's elected he will go and cut deals in Washington. And he's right. He has supported -- he has given hundreds of thousands of dollars to Democrats. Anyone who really cared about illegal immigration wouldn't be hiring illegal immigrants. Anyone who really cared about illegal immigration wouldn't be funding Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi; wouldn't be funding the Gang of Eight. And, you know, he is right. When you stand up to Washington, when you honor the promise you made to the men and women who elected you and say enough with the corruption, enough with the cronyism, let's actually stand for the working men and women of this country, Washington doesn't like it.  And Donald, if you want to be liked in Washington, that's not a good attribute for a president.      
 Wolf, can I respond to that attack?  
 Well Maria, I would note you made the exact same point here that I made at the last debate, and you're right that Senator Rubio called me a liar for saying that.  
 You know, we've both seen at home when Washington politicians say about an illegal, or unconstitutional program. Well, it'll have to end some day, not immediately, but someday in the future.  That, inevitably, is when a politician doesn't plan to end it at all.  You know, I'm reminded of that that is the same position that Marco took in Iowa on ethanol subsidies. When I campaigned in Iowa, I took on the lobbyists, took on the corporate welfare and said we should have no ethanol subsidies.  Marco's position was the same as it is to illegal amnesty. Well, someday it should end, just not now. And, frankly, I think we need a president who knows what he believes in, is willing to say it on day one, not at the end of his term when it's somebody else's problem.  
 Well, Maria, you are right. It is extraordinary that of five people standing on this stage that two of us are the children of Cuban immigrants. It really is the embodiment of the incredible opportunity and promise this nation provides.  You know, I would note that a lot of folks in the media have a definition of hispanics that you can only be hispanic if you're liberal. That makes sense in the media, but I gotta tell you, one of the things I was most proud of when I ran for Senate here in Texas, I earned 40 percent of the hispanic vote here in Texas.  At the same time, Mitt Romney was getting clobbered with 27 percent of the hispanic vote nationwide. And, the reason is, as you know, you look at the value sin the hispanic community. The values in our community are faith, family, patriotism.  You know, we've got the highest rate of military enlistment among hispanics in any demographic in this country. And, when I campaigned, and I campaigned the same here in Houston or Dallas as I did in the Rio Grande Valley, defending conservative principles, defending judeo- Christian principals, telling my father's story.  Telling my Dad's story of coming to America with $100 dollars in his underwear, not speaking English, washing dishes, having hopes and dreams for the American dream. And, the truth is the Obama-Clinton economy has done enormous damage to the hispanic community. It is not working in the hispanic community, and I...    
 ... fighting so that everyone who is struggling in the hispanic community and beyond will have a fair and even shake at the American dream.  
 Well, Hugh, I agree with you that it -- Justice Scalia's passing underscores the enormous gravity of this election. Justice Scalia was someone I knew personally for 20 years; was privileged to be at his funeral this weekend. And with his passing, the court is now hanging in the balance. We are one liberal justice away from a five-justice radical leftist majority that would undermine our religious liberty; that would undermine the right to life; and that would fundamentally erase the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms from the Constitution.  Now, I think the voters of Texas, the voters across Super Tuesday are assessing everyone standing on this -- this stage. In the past, Republican presidents always promise to nominate strict constitutionalists. So I'm certain if you took a survey, everyone would say they would do that.  But the reality is, Democrats bat about 1,000. Just about everyone they put on the court votes exactly as they want. Republicans have batted worse than 500, more than half of the people we put on the court have been a disaster.  I've spent my whole life fighting to defend the Bill of Rights and the Constitution. I can tell you, for voters that care about life or marriage or religious liberty or the Second Amendment, they're asking the question: Who do you know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, who do you know will nominate principled constitutionalists to the court? I give you my word, every justice I nominate will vigorously defend the Bill of Rights for my children and for yours.    
 Well, listen -- Donald knows that it was George W. Bush who appointed John Roberts. Yes, it's true, I supported the Republican nominee once he was made.  But I would not have nominated John Roberts. I would have nominated my former boss, Mike Luttig, who was the strongest proven conservative on the court of appeals. And I'll tell you, Hugh...    ... you know, it's interesting now that Donald promises that he will appoint justices who -- who will defend religious liberty, but this is a man who, for 40 years, has given money to Jimmy Carter, to Joe Biden, to Hillary Clinton, to Chuck Schumer, to Harry Reid.  Nobody who supports far-left liberal Democrats who are fighting for judicial activists can possibly care about having principled constitutionalists on the court.  And what Donald has told us is he will go to Washington...    ... and cut a deal.  
 So that means on Supreme Court...  
 ... he's going to look to cut a deal, rather than fight for someone who won't cut a deal on the Constitution, but will defend it faithfully.    
 Let me tell you right now, Donald, I will not apologize for a minute for defending the Constitution. I will not apologize for defending the Bill of Rights.    And I find it amazing that your answer to Hugh and to the American people is, on religious liberty, you can't have one of the these crazy zealots that actually believes in it. You've got to be willing to cut a deal.  And you know, there is a reason why, when Harry Reid was asked, of all the people on this stage, who does he want the most, who does he like the most, Harry Reid said Donald -- Donald Trump.  Why? Because Donald has supported him in the past, and he knows he can cut a deal with him.    You know what, Donald...    
 ... I don't want a Supreme Court justice that you cut a deal with Harry Reid to undermine religious liberty, because that same justice will also erase the Second Amendment from the Bill of Rights.    
 Wolf, Wolf, Wolf. Does everyone get to address Obamacare but me?  
 It's kind of an issue I have a long history with.  
 Thank you, Wolf.  
 You know, this is another issue on which Donald and I have sharp disagreements. On Planned Parenthood, he thinks Planned Parenthood is wonderful. I would instruct the Department of Justice to investigate them and prosecute any and all criminal violations.    On Obamacare, both Donald and I say we want to end it, but for very different reasons. I want to end it because it goes too far, it's killed millions of jobs, and it's hurting people's health care. Donald wants to end it because he says it doesn't go nearly far enough. And what was amazing in that exchange that was missing is for decades Donald has been advocating socialized medicine.  What he's said is government should pay for everyone's health care, and in fact, a couple of debates ago, he said, if you don't support socialized health care, you're heartless. Now, liberal Democrats have been saying that for years. Now let me tell you if you're a small business owner, Donald Trump's socialized medicine, putting the government in charge of your health care would kill more jobs than Obamacare, and if you're elderly, the results of socialized medicine in every country on earth where it's been implemented has been rationing, has been the government saying, no, you don't get that hip replacement, you don't get that knee replacement, the government is in charge of your health care.  I'll tell you this. As president...  
 ... I will repeal every word of Obamacare.    
 Donald, true or false, you've said the government should pay for everyone's health care.  
 You've never said that?  
 But you've never stood on this debate stage and says it works great in Canada and Scotland and we should do it here.  
 Did you say if you want people to die on the streets, if you don't support socialized health care, you have no heart.  
 Have you said you're a liberal on health care?  
 Talk away. Explain your plan, please.  
 So does the government pay for everyone's health care?  
 Yes or no. Just answer the question.  
 Who pays for it?  
 It's a yes or no.  
 So, I've released five years of tax returns already. We will have two more years available tomorrow. And I would note that this question really goes -- you know, Donald says he's being audited.  Well, I would think that would underscore the need to release those returns. If he has said something that was false and that an audit is going to find was fraudulent, the voters need to know.  And listen, people across this country, we recognize our country is in crisis. The most important question is how do we win the general election in November, 2016. And roughly 65 percent of Republicans think Donald is not the right candidate to go against Hillary Clinton.  Now, part of the reason in the last 10 polls...  
 ... RealClearPolitics he has lost to Hillary on eight of them. In the last 10 polls on RealClearPolitics, I either tied or beat Hillary. And this is an example.  You know, the mainstream media is laying off Donald now. They're going to pick apart his taxes. They're going to pick apart his business deals.  And let's take, for example, one of Hillary's great vulnerabilities, the corruption at the Clinton Foundation, the fact that she had CEOs and foreign companies giving her money while she was secretary of state.  
 The next Republican nominee needs to be able to make that case against Hillary. And if Donald tried to did it, Hillary would turn to Donald and say, "but gosh, Donald, you gave $100,000 to the Clinton foundation. I even went to your wedding."  He can't prosecute the case against Hillary, and we can't risk another four years of these failed Obama policies by nominating someone who loses to Hillary Clinton in November.      
 Hold on. He -- he attacked me, Wolf. I get a response.  
 Thank you. Thank -- thank -- thank you very much.  You know, it's interesting -- Donald went -- went on -- on an extended tirade about the polls, but he didn't respond to any of the substance. He has yet to say -- he can release past year's tax returns. He can do it tomorrow.  He doesn't want to do it, because presumably there's something in there...  
 ... that is bad. If there's nothing, release them tomorrow.    
 They're already prepared. The only reason he's not releasing them...  
 ... is because he's afraid that he will get hit.  
 You know, Marco made reference earlier to the litigation against Trump University. It's a fraud case. His lawyers have scheduled the trial for July.  I want you to think about, if this man is the nominee, having the Republican nominee...    ... on the stand in court, being cross-examined about whether he committed fraud. You don't think the mainstream media will go crazy on that?  And on substance, how do we nominate a candidate who has said Hillary Clinton was the best secretary of state of modern times, who agreed with her on foreign policy, who agrees with Bernie Sanders on health care, who agreed with Barack Obama on the Wall Street bailout?  
 If -- we've got to win this election, and we can't do it with a candidate who agrees with Hillary Clinton and can't take it to her and beat her on the debate stage and at the polls.  
 But you're not beating Hillary. You're not beating Hillary.  
 So -- so let me ask you this, because you're really getting beaten badly. I know you're embarrassed -- I know you're embarrassed, but keep fighting -- keep swinging, man . Swing for the fences.  Let me just tell you -- let me just tell you, the Trump University case is a civil case. Not a -- it's a civil case. It's a case where people want to try and get -- it's a case that is nonsense.  It's something I could have settled many times. I could settle it right now for very little money, but I don't want to do it out of principle. The people that took the course all signed -- most -- many -- many signed report cards saying it was fantastic, it was wonderful, it was beautiful.  As -- and believe me, I'll win that case. That's an easy case. Civil case. Number two, as far as the taxes are concerned, I'm being audited. It's a very routine audit, and it's very unfair, because I've been audited for, I think, over 12 years.  Every year, because of the size of my company, which is very, very large, I'm being audited -- which is a very large company.    
 ... the years you're not being audited? Will you release those years?  
 Which years? Which years are you being audited?  
 Well, this is another area on which Donald agrees with Hillary Clinton and on which I disagree with them both strongly. Both Donald and Hillary Clinton want to be neutral, to use Donald's word, between Israel and the Palestinians.  Let me be clear. If I'm president, America will stand unapologetically with the nation of Israel.    And the notion of neutrality is based upon the left buying into this moral relativism that is often pitched in the media. Listen, it is not equivalent. When you have terrorist strapping dynamite around their chest, exploding and murdering innocent women and children, they are not equivalent to the IDF officers protecting Israel. And I will not pretend that they are.  Just today, Iran announced they're going to pay $7,000 to each suicide bomber. And I would note, missing from Donald's answer was anything he has done in his nearly 70 years of living defending Israel. I have over and over again led the fight to defend Israel, to fight for Israel. And this -- if you want to know who will stand with Israel, we ought to start with who has stood with Israel when the heat was on.    
 Well look. We're certainly hopeful that the violence will cease, but there's reason to be highly skeptical. Russia has enhanced its position because of Obama's weakness in the Middle East, weakness in Syria. And you know, as we're headed to November, we need no nominate a Republican candidate that can lay out a clear difference with both Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton on foreign policy.  One of the real challenges with both Donald and Senator Rubio is that they have agreed over and over again with both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. So for example, in Libya, both of them agreed with the Obama/Clinton policy of toppling the government in Libya. That was a disaster. It gave the country over to radical Islamic terrorism and it endangered America.  Another example is John Kerry. John Kerry -- Senator Rubio voted to confirm John Kerry as secretary of State. I voted against him. And Donald Trump supported John Kerry against George W. Bush in 2004, gave him a check. And John Kerry has been the most anti-Israel secretary of State this country has ever seen. His diplomacy has been a disaster. And if we nominate someone who agreed with John Kerry, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton on foreign policy, we're not in a strong position to win the general election.    
 But you called for Bush to be impeached.  
 But you gave him a check and called for him to be impeached.  
 You know, it's interesting, Donald just said that he never came out in favor of toppling Gadhafi in Libya. Well, he stated that in an interview that will be on our Web site, tedcruz.org.  You can see and hear the exact words from Donald's mouth. And I assume when he sees that interview, maybe he forgot about it, but I assume Donald will apologize where he sees that he said exactly that.  With regard to John Kerry, I will say John Kerry's foreign policy has been a disaster for decades. That's why I voted against him when he came up. And the fact that Donald Trump would write him a check and support him against George W. Bush shows exceptionally poor foreign policy judgment.  And I'll give one more example on Israel. When the Obama administration canceled civilian air flights into the national of Israel, when Hamas was raining rockets down on them, I publicly asked, is this an economic boycott against Israel?  The next day Michael Bloomberg, another New York billionaire, got on a plane, a commercial flight, and flew to Israel from London. Together the heat and light that was put on the State Department was so great that within 36 hours they lifted the ban on air flights into Israel.  During that entire battle, and indeed during every battle on Israel the natural question is, where was Donald? If this is something he cares about, why has he supported anti-Israel politicians from Jimmy Carter to Hillary Clinton to John Kerry for four decades?  If you care about Israel, you don't write checks to politicians who are undermining Israel. Instead you stand and support the national security of America and the alliance with Israel.    
 Then name one specific thing you've done.  
 Hold on, Wolf. You said I got a response.  
 Hold on. He called me a liar. You're saying I can't respond to being called a liar?    
 You know, what we're seeing with Donald is actually the pattern of Washington -- the pattern of Washington deal makers, which is they make promises, they break their words, and then when anyone calls them on it, they call you a liar.  And so that's Donald's pattern over and over again. He said, for example, seven months ago -- this is Donald speaking, quote -- "I, Donald Trump, was a member of the establishment."  There's a reason Harry Reid thinks he's the best Republican up here. There's a reason Jimmy Carter said he would support Donald Trump over me, because he said Donald Trump is malleable, he has no fixed set of beliefs...    ... whereas Ted Cruz is not malleable. And every time anyone points at Donald's actual record...  
 ... what he said on national television, Donald yells "liar." Let me tell you something -- falsely accusing someone of lying is itself a lie...  
 ... and it's something Donald does daily.  
 I believe it. No, no. I believe you know politicians much better than I do, because for 40 years, you've been funding liberal Democratic politicians. And by the way...  
 ... the reason is -- you're welcome to have the check back.  
 Yeah, you gave me $5,000.  
 And -- and by the way, let's be clear.    Donald claims -- Donald claims to care about...  
 Donald. Donald. Donald. I understand rules are very hard for you. They're very confusing.  
 Donald, you can get back on your meds now.  
 Donald -- Donald, relax.  
 Donald...  
 ...  
 I promise you, Donald, there's nothing about you...  
 ... that makes anyone nervous.  
 You know, people are actually watching this at home.  
 Wolf, I'm going to ask my time not be deducted when he's yelling at me.  
 Hold on, I'm going to get my answer. He doesn't get to yell the whole time. 
 Excuse me, he called me a liar, then interrupted the whole time. Am I allowed to...      
 Wolf, do I not get a response? Do I not get a response without being interrupted?  
 Well, as you know, at that same CNN forum, both Marco and I were asked this question. His answer, he was on both sides of the fence. He's now agreeing with me. And so I'm glad.  What I said is yes, Apple should be forced to comply with this court order. Why? Because under the Fourth Amendment, a search and seizure is reasonable if it has judicial authorization and probable cause. In this instance, the order is not put a back door in everyone's cell phone. If that was the order, that order would be problematic because it would compromise security and safety for everyone.  I would agree with Apple on that broad policy question. But on the question of unlocking this cell phone of a terrorist, we should enforce the court order and find out everyone that terrorist at San Bernardino talked to on the phone, texted with, e-mailed. And absolutely, Apple doesn't have a right to defy a valid court order in a terrorism investigation.    
 Washington deals are bankrupting this country. There are several deal-makers on this stage but there is only one person who has consistently stood up to both parties, fighting for the American people against the Washington deals.  If I'm elected president, on the first day in office I will rescind every single illegal and unconstitutional executive action. I will instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into Planned Parenthood and prosecute any criminal violations.  I will instruct every federal agency that the persecution of religious liberty ends today. I will rip to shreds the Iranian -- catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal. And I will begin the process of moving the American embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.  We will repeal Obamacare, abolish of IRS, secure the border, and bring back jobs.    
