Speaker:Ted Cruz
Date: 20160221
Category: Interview
Occasion: Face the Nation on CBS with John Dickerson
Source: http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcripts-february-21-2016-trump-rubio-sanders-cruz-kasich/
 You know, John, if you look at the first three primaries, we started in Iowa, where all of the media said we didn't have a chance, we couldn't win. We won an overwhelming victory in Iowa with a big, big margin.  We went on to New Hampshire. All the media said a conservative could not compete in a moderate New England state. We won a very strong third-place finish in New Hampshire. And then we went to South Carolina, where a week ago Donald Trump had a 20-point dominating lead, and we ended up closing that gap tremendously and finishing with -- effectively tied for second place.  And that combination, what that has done to the race is, at this point, we have seen the race, the field narrow dramatically. And there is only one strong conservative who has a path to winning. And that is having the effect of unifying conservatives nationally and teeing us up for Nevada and especially for Super Tuesday, coming up in nine days.  And that was always our plan. Do well in the first three states, and then compete and have a very strong night on Super Tuesday. I think we're ideally positioned to do exactly that.  
 Well, you know, one of the very encouraging things we saw last night in the exit polls is that we young people. We were at first place among young people in South Carolina.  It's interesting, because we also won young people in Iowa, and we took second among young people in New Hampshire. If you can stitch together that kind of coalition with young people, bringing together conservatives and evangelicals -- and I will tell you, in Iowa, we also won Reagan Democrats, working-class voters.  And, as you know, John, historically, in order to have chance to win the nomination, you have to win one of the first three states. There are only two people that have done that, Donald Trump and me. And one of the things we're seeing is, listen, across the country, there are a lot of Republicans who think Donald Trump is not the right guy to go head to head with Hillary Clinton, that we probably lose that matchup.  About 70 percent of Republicans believe that. We're seeing people come together behind our campaign because we're the only campaign that has beaten Donald Trump and that can beat Donald Trump. You can't beat Donald Trump from the left. You can't beat Donald with a candidate who has supported amnesty. Donald wins that head to head.  Head to head with me, we beat Donald Trump by 16 points. And so what we're seeing, John, it's incredible. People all over the country are going to TedCruz.org. We got over 980,000 contributions the TedCruz.org because we want a strong conservative. We want someone who can beat Hillary.  And I beat Hillary. And Donald, sadly, the polling shows, doesn't.  
 Oh, listen, there's no doubt that both Donald and Marco got very personal, got very nasty.  And both of them, when you point to their records, they follow the same pattern. They scream liar, liar, liar. They impugn your integrity. They attack your character. And, as you know, from the very beginning of this campaign, nearly a year now, I have consistently refused to respond in kind.  I'm not going to impugn anyone's integrity. I'm not going to attack their character. And, in fact, I will happily praise both Donald Trump and Marco Rubio as men who I admire, as people who I'm not going to go personal with them.  But I do think we should be focused on substance and record. If you want a candidate who opposes amnesty, who opposes citizenship for the 12 million people here illegally, I'm the only candidate in the race who opposes that. If you want a candidate who is led the fight against Obamacare, who will lift the burdens on small businesses and bring back jobs, I'm the only candidate in the race with that proven record.  If you want a candidate to defend life and marriage and religious liberty and the Second Amendment and to appoint strong constitutionalists to the court, I'm the only candidate with that record. That's why conservatives are uniting behind our campaign. And if they want to continue with the attacks, that's their prerogative.  We are going to stay focused on the substance, because I think that is what the voters want. And I think that is what they deserve.  
 Well, listen, I have joked more than once on the campaign trail that I'm going to build a wall, and I have somebody in mind to build it.  There's no doubt that if you wanted a building contractor, Donald would be certainly a strong contender for that. But the question we have here is, who is a leader on this issue? You know, back in 2013, when we were having the epic battle on amnesty, when Marco Rubio joined up with Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer and Harry Reid to push amnesty, I led the fight against it, standing shoulder to shoulder with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and millions of Americans.  And Donald Trump was no where to be found. In fact, he was tweeting support for amnesty just couple of years ago. And even now, if you ask Donald, he wants to give citizenship to the 12 million people here illegally. He wants to deport them, but let them come right back in with citizenship.  
 Listen, if you're a hardworking steelworker or truck driver, that drives down your wages. That takes away your jobs.  
 I think we need to be fighting for the working men and women of this country, not the moneyed New York interests.  
