Speaker:Donald J. Trump
Date: 20160124
Category: Interview
Occasion: Meet the Press with Chuck Todd
Source: http://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/meet-press-january-24-2016-n503241
  Good morning, and I have to tell you his ad is wrong, because I never knocked down that house. I wanted to get that house to build a major building that would have employed tremendous numbers of people, but then the woman didn't want to sell, ultimately I just said, "Forget about it." So he's got me bulldozing down a house, I never bulldozed it down. It's false advertising. But what can I tell you.  
  No, the accusation was--  
  --that I did it. And I didn't do it. So I didn't. But, you know, the way to eminent domain, if you didn't have eminent domain, you wouldn't have highways, you wouldn't have the Keystone pipeline, because they need their desperately if it's ever going to get built. You wouldn't have roads, you wouldn't have schools, hospitals. I mean, I don't love eminent domain, but you need eminent domain or you don't have a country.  
  Well, that's not right, number one. And most conservatives love me, or I wouldn't be having the poll numbers that FOX just came out. They just released their numbers, it's through the roof. And I wouldn't be having the poll numbers that I have. I am a conservative. But I get along with people. Ted cannot get along with people at all.  I mean, the biggest problem he has, he's a nasty guy and nobody likes him. Not one Republican senator, he works with them every day, not one Republican senator has endorsed Ted Cruz. I mean, when you think of it, that's actually a shocking thing to believe--  
  What I said was...  
  Look, he was very nice to me, and I kept saying, "When is it going to happen, Ted? When is it going to happen?" I was waiting, because I wanted counterparts. I don't want to be the first one. And then during the debate, a debate which everyone said I won, he got very nasty. And he started hitting me and I hit him back.  And then, you know, since then. But I was saying, he was following along, anything I said was okay to him. Anything I said. And he was really, you know, look, I had some people that have been terrific on the stand. And I like some of the candidates very much on a personal basis. But Ted was very nice. And then I said, and during that period of time, I said, "Come on, Ted, when is it going to happen?" Because I understand Ted. Ted's a nasty guy who is not a very well-liked person.  
  No, I talked about the fact that I'm not sure that I can vote for him, because as you know, he has a very major issue. In fact, Illinois now is looking at it very seriously. I don't even know, is it going to be okay to run in Illinois, the state of Illinois. He was born in Canada, he was born on Canadian soil, he was a citizen of--  
  Chuck, Chuck, he was a citizen--  
  Oh, yeah, no, I will. That was relating to Canada, by the way, when I said that. The question was that when it's relating to Canada. The question is whether or not he can run. And I'll tell you something, from the standpoint of voters in Iowa and New Hampshire and all these places that have to go out and vote, how can you vote for a candidate, I mean, how can you do it, when you don't even know if that candidate is able to run?  Laurence Tribe from Harvard said, "It's totally unsettled law." A number of the top constitutional lawyers have come out recently over the last few days, said he's not allowed to run. He was born in Canada. He can't run. So there's a real question. And I said he should get a declaratory judgment, he has to do something. Because how can you have a campaign when it's very possible you're not allowed to run?  
  Well, first of all, that's not an insulting quote. I mean, it really is. I was going to hit--  
  And it wasn't really an insulting quote. Second of all, National Review is a failing magazine. And you get that. You know, they did it because they'll get some nice publicity. I am a conservative. And what I say to people is this: Ronald Reagan. He was a somewhat liberal Democrat, and over the years, he evolved and he became fairly conservative. Not overly, a fairly conservative Republican.  Now, he became a great president also. And I've evolved. And a lot of people have evolved. And a lot of people change positions on things over years. And by the way, Ted Cruz has changed his position. He was very, very weak on illegal immigration. He was very, very weak on illegal immigration.  And now, all of a sudden, because of my stance, he got strong. But Ted Cruz was absolutely weak on immigration. And now all of a sudden he gets stronger. So let's hear what happens. But I use the term Ronald Reagan, I use the name Ronald Reagan, and that's pretty good to me.  
  Well, we're working on that now. I have very big returns, as you know, and I have everything all approved and very beautiful and we'll be working that over in the next period of time, Chuck. Absolutely.  
  I don't know, I mean, you know--  
  --accountants. This is not, like, a normal tax return. This is--  
  And I have to- But I will say this, and I'm very proud to say it, I think the country is run horribly. I hate what they do with our money. And unlike everybody else, I try to pay as little tax as possible, because I hate what they do with my tax money. I hate the way they spend our money, the way they give it to Iraq, the way they give it to Iran, the way they give it to s-- to everything. They give it to everybody--  
  I hate the way our politicians spend our money, I hate the way they give it away to everybody but us. We have to rebuild our country.  
  I pay, it's a little tax. And I say it. And the reporters said, "That's the most refreshing answer I've ever heard on taxes," because everyone tries to build it up, like Mitt Romney. He built it up, tried to build it up, how much he paid. It just doesn't work that way. But I'll be, we're working on it right now, and at the appropriate time, you'll be very satisfied.  
  Well, Michael has been a friend of mine over the years, I don't know if we're friends anymore, frankly. But Michael has been a friend of mine. I would love to have Michael Bloomberg run. I would love that competition. I think I'd do very well against it. I would love to see Michael Bloomberg run.  
