Speaker:Hillary Clinton
Date: 20160124
Category: Interview
Occasion: Meet the Press with Chuck Todd
Source: http://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/meet-press-january-24-2016-n503241
  Thank you, Chuck. It's good to talk to you this morning.  
  Well, Chuck, look, I think it's actually good for the debate that we're having. That there is so much interest and energy that I feel on my side and I know obviously so does Senator Sanders on his. We've got a big choice to make. And it's exciting. I had a great couple of events yesterday. I am enthusiastically pursuing the opportunity to reach every single voter in Iowa.  And we're going to see what happens. I feel good about where we are. Obviously, we'll find out a week from tomorrow. But if you look at the differences between Senator Sanders and myself, I don't still think we can wait. We can't wait to make progress on the myriad of issues that I think we're going to be facing in the next administration. I want to build on the progress that President Obama has made. And he has a different approach. And that's what voters are trying to determine, which they prefer.  
  No, there isn't. I just have to tell you, I can only react to what I'm doing, feeling, getting responses from people. And, you know, I feel great that we have the level of enthusiasm the we do. And we also have a really good team on the ground that has been working for months to make sure that it's not just here today, gone tomorrow, but people are involved, they are really reached out to.  And yes, we believe they're going to come caucus. So, you know, this speculation and all the rest of it is entertaining. I admit that. But we're just going to keep moving forward and do the work that we think is going to be successful on February 1st.  
  No, I'm really not. Because I think at the end of the day, people take this vote seriously. They know they're voting for who they prefer to be the next president and commander in chief. And I believe that when I am out there talking with people about what we have to go up against, here at home, get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top, begin to raise incomes, which hasn't happened, deal with healthcare, going from 90 percent coverage, which is what we have under the Affordable Care Act now, to 100 percent, and I'll roll out what I intend to do to get there, I can only tell you that I see people nodding, I know people are signing up as they leave my events.  That's what matters here. It is very personal. And people look and they think, you know, "Can we imagine this person to be president and commander in chief?" And because of my experience, particularly my years as secretary of State, working with President Obama, I think that's something that people really take into account.  
  Well, Chuck, first of all, I don't agree with you on that. I think that there are several really important issues, healthcare being one of them. We've got to get costs down. I met a man on Friday who no longer can afford to pay for his HIV medication. I met a woman yesterday whose bill for these drugs she must take and has taken for 25 years has gone from a couple of hundred to over $14,000 for the same amount of the drug. That really hits my heart.  I know what people are going through. I'm going to use whatever tools I can to get us lower prices, cap those prescription drug companies, take that on. But I'm also going to focus on the economy. Because unless we create more jobs and get incomes rising and fix the tax system so that it doesn't, in so many ways, tilt toward the wealthy, people are not going to get ahead. They're not going to feel they're getting ahead. And they're going to still believe that the government, the economy is rigged against them, which is bad for our democracy.  
  Well, look, I gave speeches to a wide array of groups, from healthcare groups to auto dealers and many, many more. And I think what they were interested in, because what we talked about was the world. Coming off of four years as secretary of State, in a complicated world, people were interested in what I saw, what I thought, they asked questions about the matters that were on their mind, a lot of interest in the bin Laden raid, how such a tough decision was made and what I advised the president. You know, I think Americans who are doing business in every aspect of the economy want to know more about the world. I actually think it's a good conversation to be having. And--  
  Absolutely not. You know, first of all, I was a senator from New York. I took them on when I was senator. I took on the carried-interest loophole. I took on what was happening in the mortgage markets. I was talking about that in 2006. They know exactly where I stand. And I'll tell you, Chuck. It's really interesting to me that now Karl Rove has taken money from the financial interest to run an ad against me to try to influence Democrats not to support me.  Why? Ask yourself why. Because he knows, number one, I know what must be done, and number two, I know how to get it done, to make sure that Wall Street, writ large, not just the banks, but the investment banks, the hedge funds, and everybody else, no longer can wreck our economy the way they did in 2008.  
  No. I'm not concerned, because I know what the facts are. I never sent or received any material marked "classified." I cannot control what the Republicans leak and what they are contending. And I thought it was interesting, Chuck. You, as a political observer, understand why. You know, back a couple of months ago, Kevin McCarthy spilled the beans that the Benghazi investigation was all about bringing me down, something that I suspected, but I went ahead, testified for 11 hours, answered all their questions and even they admitted there was nothing new.  And now, Senator Grassley shows up at a Trump rally yesterday in Iowa, he's the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, who has, and his staff have been, you know, behind in pushing a lot of these stories, and announces he's there for the simple reason to defeat me. I can't control what the Republicans are doing. But I know what the facts are, and I will just keep putting them out there.  This is something that I think is very clear about what happened. And I know it will be over and resolved at some point. But I can't control what the Republicans and their allies do. But I think it's important for voters to know what they're doing.  
  He's a good friend of mine. And I'm going to do the best I can to make sure that I get the nomination and we'll go from there.  
  Well, the way I read what he said is if I didn't get the nomination, he might consider it. Well, I'm going to relieve him of that and get the nomination so he doesn't have to.  
  Thank you, good to talk to you.  
