Speaker: John Kasich
Date: 20160214
Category: Interview
Occasion: Meet the Press with Chuck Todd
Source: http://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/meet-press-february-14-2016-n518621
  You know, if it's Sunday, it's, like, Meet the Press. It's--  
  --Sunday, isn't it?  
  Well, you know, that's their decision, Chuck. You know, as the governor of Ohio, I have to deal with legislators and their decisions. And I don't try to tell them what to do. I understand the president has prerogative here. I got that.  Senate has a prerogative, too, of course. But, you know, I just think at a time when the country is so divided, it would just be great if the president didn't send somebody forward and we had an election. And then everybody would be clear about what they want in the next Supreme Court justice. But I guess it's not going to go that way.  
  And it's going to cause--  
  Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa--  
  Wait a minute. Wait a minute.  
  Well--  
  Well, but that's life. I mean, you know, then the people actually have had some say. It's really kind of a unique thing when you think about it, Chuck. It's unique to say that the public itself is going to have sort of an indirect vote on who's going to be a Supreme Court justice.  I think that's kind of cool. And what I don't like now is, you know, we could talk about this all day long. You and I both know in the real world, they're not going to confirm anybody. Unless they pick somebody who's so beloved that everybody goes, "That's great," okay, I don't think that's going to happen.  
  Well, I mean, it's like all the yelling, and screaming, and back and forth. Chuck, what I have found, and I tell you I'm having the time of my life, people want to know what you're for. Look, I've been all over. Yesterday, I went to this barbecue shack. There were 500 people waiting there.  I was there, you know, taking pictures. Must have been another 45 minutes after I got done speaking. And people are grabbing onto you, saying, "Please stay positive. Please don't get into these fights." And I get my energy by being for things. I don't get my energy by being against things.  And I think people tend to get negative when they're not selling their own positive. So, look, that's where I am. And if it works out for me, great. If it doesn't work out for me, I'll get to spend more time with my family. But, look, I want to win. And we're doing well. Really well.  
  Right.  
  That's right.  
  Correct.  
  We did it with Lebanon.  
  Chuck, let me tell you. You know how I--  
  --voted on Lebanon? Yeah. Well, Libya was a terrible mistake. You know, frankly, that's something that people ought to be thinking about in regard to Hillary. You know, they talk about Benghazi, which is very legitimate. Of course it is. But we should never have deposed Gaddafi. That was a terrible mistake.  The guy was working with us. And now, we've created chaos in that country. Look, I was not in favor of U.S. troops in Lebanon. And I voted against it. Even when Reagan wanted them there. Tip O'Neill wanted them there. Then when they got blown up, Tip was out blaming Reagan. And I never forget it. You know, since the 6th century, Sunni and Shia have been fighting. And we want to get in the middle of that--  
  It makes no sense.  
  I would only go to Syria to destroy ISIS. I would not use U.S. troops to depose Assad. But I would support the rebels there. It's okay to support those people who share your view. But for the United States to be embroiled in a civil war in Syria against Assad I think is a big mistake.  
  No. No. I think it was spending, Chuck. And the dirty little secret is Democrats love to spend. And Republicans do, too. It's just that Republicans feel guilty. Look, if you don't have a leader that stands in the breach to restrain the spending of government, they'll always spend.  
  Okay, Chuck.  
  Thank you.  
  Yeah, we will--  
  All right.  
