Speaker:John Kasich
Date: 20160221
Category: Interview
Occasion: Face the Nation on CBS with John Dickerson
Source: http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcripts-february-21-2016-trump-rubio-sanders-cruz-kasich/
 Well, first of all, you know, I'm starting to get known in this country for the first time and a message is being heard. And, look, these guys have spent $50 million in the campaign. I've spent about $15 million. And the fact of the matter is, a lot of the money they spend has been designed to, you know, hammer me, negative ads against me.  We're getting big crowds everywhere we go. I was just in Vermont. A tremendous turn out. Massachusetts. I'm heading to Virginia tomorrow. And we just keep going. And, look, you know, we finished second in New Hampshire. I think Marco finished fifth. So we never expected to -- to finish at the top in South Carolina and I think, frankly, we've exceed expectations there. The late voters, we did very well with, the late deciders. And we're moving on. And we feel good about where we are.  And, look, I mean all I can tell you is we've risen in the national polls. We're still strong. We've got good grassroots and everybody just hang on, things are going to settle down.  
 Well, I -- look, we've got to do well in -- in Vermont, in Massachusetts. We think we're going to do well in Virginia. We believe that we will over perform in Mississippi. We think we get to the Midwest, whether it's Illinois or whether it's Michigan -- and, remember, John, as I -- I heard Bernie Sanders saying, it's proportional. I don't have to win these places, I just have to hang in there and continue to gain momentum.  And no one ever expect me to get in the race. They didn't think I would get on the debate stage. I did. They didn't think I'd do well in New Hampshire. I finished second. And so we went to South Carolina. In a short period of time later, two weeks ago people in South Carolina had no clue who I was.  So, we're the engine that can. Everybody out to just relax on this. And, look, think about it, there were 16 people in the race, including a number of governors, and there's only one left. And I think that at the end we have to make sure that we have somebody that can go to that town, change that system, grow employment, change the whole way in which it works and ship power money and influence back to the states. So I'm optimistic about it.  
 Well, maybe, you know -- again, you know, we -- I finished second in New Hampshire. He finished fifth. I did play in South Carolina. And we're going to go to -- on March the 1st to a number of states where we think we're going to do well. so it's a matter of continuing on, John, and being able to take advantage of the grassroots.  We now have some Bush people who have come our way, both from a political point of view and a fundraising point of view. And we're going to keep struggling to make sure that we can be out there, keep putting the resources together to be in a position of doing well. And, look, remember this, I'm the person who beats Hillary Clinton by more than any other Republican candidate for president. In the "USA Today" poll, I beat her by 11 points. And, again, I've risen to third police in the national polls out of nowhere without spending really much money. I get the money, continue to put the grassroots together, and you're going to see a great result. So people want to consolidate. They ought to consolidate my way.  
 Yes.  
 Well, it's not all Americans. But I understand those polls. But as a result of that, that's not going to change my position. I mean I don't think it is even practical and I don't think it's right. I mean just because somebody happens to be of the Muslim faith, doesn't make them a terrorist or make them a threat to America. And we've had relations with people all over the world of the Muslim faith.  And, look, nobody wants anybody who's radical, who wants to move in here to be able to gain access. I said we should take a pause on these Syrian migrants. And I believe we should do that. But, frankly, to try to create some sort of a religious standard in terms of who can come to America, we're a melting pot. And as long as people have positive and good intent, they ought to be able to come.  
 All right, John, thank you.  
