Speaker:John Kasich
Date: 20160206
Category: Debate
Occasion: 8th Republican presidential debate, St. Anselm College, Goffstown, NH
Source: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/07/us/politics/transcript-of-the-republican-presidential-debate-in-new-hampshire.html
 Well, we’ve got to to step up the pressure. And by the way, I’ve gotta say, after being here, every one of my 100 town hall meetings in New Hampshire were a lot more fun than what I saw here today, were so much more positive.  Look, in terms of North Korea, Martha, we have to make sure that we intercept both the ships and their aircraft, because what they’re trying to do is to proliferate this very dangerous material, along with the — with the technology, the instruments that can be used for mass destruction.  That’s what I worry about the most, frankly, is non-state actors, people who don’t have a uniform, people don’t have a country, who can spread this, who are not subject to the — to the mutual assured defense. In other words, you strike us, we strike you.  Some of these radicals, they don’t care about that. That’s what I worry about, for my children, and for their children, going forward. So, we have to be very tough.    Fact Checks of the 2016 Election And we should tell the Chinese, look, if you’re not going to do this ballistic missile defense to the Koreans, ballistic missile defense to Japan — and by the way, we should impose the same kind of sanctions on North Korea that we imposed on Iran, because they’re able to shift money. They’re able to send money and receive money.    
 We’ve gotta to be very tough on this. And frankly, I think we could have — I think we could have let the Japanese know that if you want to take action on that — on that missile that’s rising, you want to take action — you will have our support, if that’s what you think is the best thing to do. We cannot continue to be weak in the face of the North Koreans, or, frankly, in the entire rest of the world.  Martha, this is — this is the — relates...  
 Well, you know, David, I — I’ve just spent a lot of time here in this state, as I mentioned earlier, and we have to have practical solutions, just like we were just talking about a few minutes ago on North Korea. Look, the situation is, we need to finish the border. It has to be completed. Just like we lock our doors at night, the country has to be able to lock its doors. And we can have a guest worker program, where people can come in and out in an orderly way.  And then for the 11.5 million that are here, if they have not committed a crime since they’ve been here, I believe they ought to pay some back taxes, pay a fine, never get on the path to citizenship, but get legalization. It is not — I couldn’t even imagine how we would even begin to think about taking a mom or a dad out of a house when they have not committed a crime since they’ve been here, leaving their children in the house. I mean, that is not, in my opinion, the kind of values that we believe in. 
 And secondly, I think at the end of the day, that Americans would support a plan like this. I think Congress would pass a plan to finish the border, guest worker, pay a fine, a path to legalization, and not citizenship. And we’ve got to get this done. And I will tell you this, within the first 100 days that I am president, I will put that proposal to the Congress. And I will tell you, as a former Congressman, and an executive, in Ohio, I can promise you that I believe you’ll get the votes to pass that, and we can move on with that issue and protect our border. That’s what I think.  
 Good evening.  
 Well, first of all, look. As the New York Times said, he’s certainly not a moderate, but he can bring people together to solve problems. The fact of the matter is I’ve cut taxes more than anybody in the country this year. I have balanced budgets, the federal budget, the state of Ohio budget, we’re running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we’re up 400,000 jobs, and in Washington we were able to have significant job growth whenever we balanced the budget of which I was the architect.  But, here’s the beauty of it, it’s not just balancing a budget, it’s about jobs. You know, when I was kid growing up in a neighborhood where Dad went home at night and said, “I lost my job today”, it just killed the family.  It just was a devastating effect. We have to have economic growth, but once we have economic growth I believe we have to reach out to people who live in the shadows. I believe we need to help the mentally ill, the drug addicted, the working poor. We need to help the developmentally disabled to rise, and we need to help our friends in the minority community develop entrepreneurship. In other words, in American, conservatism should mean not only that some rise with conservative principles, but everybody has a chance to rise regardless of who they are so they can live their God given purpose. That’s what conservatism should be.    
 David?  
 Look, I’m — I’m not here — I like Chris.  
 Let — but let me — let me just tell you. First of all, we have the lowest number of state employees in 30 years.  Secondly, we have grown government at the rate of inflation. And I went from an $8 billion hole to a $2 billion surplus. And we’ve grown jobs by 400,000 — that’s one of the fastest growing states in the country. Our pensions are secure and our credit is rock solid.  Now, I’ve learned that, what makes things work, what gets the economy going, not just in Ohio, but in Washington — and it’s three things. Common sense regulations, which we have, lower taxes, which we have, the lowest taxes, tax cuts in the country. And thirdly, a fiscal plan to balance the budget.  When you go from $8 billion in the hole to $2 billion in the black, when you cut taxes by $5 billion and you grow over 400,000 jobs, that is a record that I can take to Washington, using the same formula that I used in Washington when I was part of the effort to balance the budget to give us a surplus and to create jobs.  
 That’s what I did and I’ll do it again in the first 100 days.  
 Governor Kasich, thank you. I do want to turn from jobs to taxes.  
 Well, right now the deals — there’s no leadership. I mean, a lot of the things that we’re talking about here tonight, on the border, and so many of the things. What we should be doing on foreign policy, you know what the problem is, Mary Katharine? There’s not a leader that gets somebody to rise.  You have to have a leader that can inspire, and actually some of what Donald was saying is true. Look, do you know how hard it was...  
 ... to get the balance the federal budget balanced? You have to plead with people. To do what we’ve done in Ohio, you have to plead with people, then you go back down to Washington and do the same thing.  See, we have to remind people we’re Americans before we’re Republicans and Democrats, and when we wait, and when we delay what we end up doing, Mary Katharine, is we make the United States weaker. In fact, it’s a foreign policy issue because people look at America not solving problems and they say what are they doing over there? The point is you have to work with people.
 Mary Katherine, let me just say this to you.    You must have an agenda that you are ready to move on in the first 100 days. Jeb is right. If you delay and you wait, the Washington operators will take you down. I can tell you this, in the first 100 days, I will have legislation to freeze federal regulations, have them reviewed by the vice president, reduce state taxes on individuals, reduce taxes on corporations, have a fiscal plan to balance the budget, get the border protected and begin to fix Social Security in the first 100 days.  So, anybody who is here tonight, if I get elected president, head out tomorrow and buy a seat belt, because there’s going to be so much happening in the first 100 days, it’s going to make your head spin. We’re going to move America forward. I promise you. We’re going to move us forward.    
 Jeb mentioned me. Time for me to go again.  
 He says he didn’t mention me the second time. I thought I heard it, Jeb. No. I’m just kidding. Thank you all very much for listening and being patient with all of us tonight. Thank you.  
 David, David...  
 I wanted — I wanted to say, look, this — there can be a win-win here. I have formed a collaborative between police and community leaders because people have to respect law enforcement. A family doesn’t want dad or mom going home in a box. And for our community leaders, many of them think the system not only works — not only doesn’t work for them, but it works against them.  And I created a big collaborative in Ohio made up of law enforcement, community leaders, the head of my public safety and a former Democrat, liberal Senate senator Nina Turner, run it. They got together, they made recommendations on recruiting, on hiring, on the use of deadly force and what we’re about to do is to bring community and police together so we can have a win-win.  We need more win-wins in America and we don’t have to pick one over another divide. We love the police, but we’ve got to be responsible to the people in the community. We have to do all of that.    
 Josh?  
 Josh, I mean, clearly, when a veteran comes home, they should get health care anywhere they want to go. In our state, which is what we should do in the country, you know, if they drive a truck from Kabul to Kandahar in Afghanistan, we say, you can drive a truck from Columbus to Cleveland, and you don’t have to go get a license. We’re going to hand you one.  And if you’ve got expertise in the military, we’re going to give you college credit or community college credit for the things that you did for our country. And in addition to that, I’ll tell you, one of the biggest things I think has to be done — and I would do it as president — the Pentagon has got to work with the returning soldier, sailor, along with the family, and we — they’re the most valuable employees in the country. I call them golden employees.  Everybody wants to hire a veteran. But there is a disconnect between the job openings and the veteran when the veteran comes back. The veteran is a leader. The veteran is strong. The veteran is drug free. There should be no unemployment among veterans.  And if the Pentagon will work with the veterans’ services agencies all across this country, Josh, we can get people jobs and we can get them jobs quickly, get them their health care...    ... get them their college education. Let’s lift them. They’re the greatest people defending the United States of America and we need to take care of them, and we will. We will.    
 Carolina’s going to win that one. I hate to say it. But they’re going to win that one.  
 Well, folks, I’ve done now over 100 town hall meetings and I’ve loved every second of it. It has been the greatest thing in the world. And I want you to know that you’ve changed me, because I’ve listened to your stories and I’ve had your hugs and I’ve seen your tears, and I’ve seen you walk away and say, I now have hope.  You know, I’ve had a conservative message, but a positive message — not just a conservative message, but a positive message about how we can bring people together, how we can restore America’s strength, lift everyone. New Hampshire, please give me a chance to carry this message forward to the United States of America. And then, I will come back. Thank you, loved it. And God bless you.    
