Speaker:John Kasich
Date: 20150916
Category: Debate
Occasion: 2nd Republican debate in Reagan Library, Simi Valley, CA
Source: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2015/09/16/annotated-transcript-september-16-gop-debate/
 Hello, I'm John Kasich, the Governor of Ohio. Emma, and Reese, my children, and Karen, love 'ya girls. Thanks for watching tonight.  By the way, I think I actually flew on this plane with Ronald Reagan when I was a congressman, and his goals, and mine, really much -- are pretty much the same. Lift Americans, unify, give hope, grow America, and restore it is to that great, shining city on a hill.  Yes, he was a great one, and I learned much from watching him. The most important thing, hope to Americans, unify, lift everyone in America.    
 Jake, Jake.  
 Listen, you know, I -- if I were sitting at home and watch thing back and forth, I would be inclined to turn it off. I mean, people at home want to know across this country, they want to know what we're going to do to fix this place, how we'll balance a budget, how we're going to create more economic growth, how we'll pay down the debt. What we're going to do to strengthen the military.  So, we just spent 10 minutes here...  
 But -- but wait a minute. It's a lot of ad hogshead. Now, I know that it may be buzzing out there, but I think it's important we get to the issues, because that's what people want, and they don't want all this fighting.  
 ...Yeah, well...  
 Well, let me just say this. First of all, I think it's a bad agreement, I would never have done it. But, you know, a lot of our problems in the world today is that we don't have the relationship with our allies. If we want to go everywhere alone, we will not have the strength as  if we could rebuild with our allies.  Now, this agreement, we don't know what's going to happen in 18 months. I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years. I've seen lots of issues in foreign affairs, and foreign -- in terms of global politics, you have to be steady.  Now, here's the -- if they cheat, we slap the sanctions back on. If they help Hamas, and Hezbollah, we slap the sanctions back on. And, if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon, than the military option is on the table. We are stronger when we work with the Western civilization, our friends in Europe, and just doing it on our own I don't think is the right policy.  
 No, no, no. I want to -- I want to -- I want to say something about what the senator just said.  
 No one is -- no -- let me -- let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the world when our allies work with us. President Bush did it in the Gulf War. We work better when we are unified.  Secondly, nobody's trusting Iran. They violate the deal, we put on the sanctions, and we have the high moral ground to talk to our allies in Europe to get them to go with us.  If they don't go with us, we slap the sanctions on anyway. If they fund these radical groups that threaten Israel and all of the West, then we should rip up the deal and put the sanctions back on.  And let me make it clear -- let me make it clear...    
 ... if we think -- if we think they're getting close to a -- to developing a nuclear weapon and we get that information, you better believe that I would do everything in my power as the commander-in-chief to stop them having a nuclear weapon.  
 We can have it, and we can have our allies, and we can be strong as a country, and we can project across this globe with unity, not just doing it alone. That is not what gets us where we want to get as a nation.  
 Well, I agree that we should defund Planned Parenthood. I don't know many people in America who don't think that we should, and in my state, we're trying to figure out how to get it done, because we are threatened with the federal government taking all of our Medicaid money away.  I think there is a way to get this done by giving governors the ability to be able to act to defund Planned Parenthood. But when  it comes to closing down the federal government, you gotta be very careful about that.  When we shut the government down -- if we have a chance at success and it's a great principle, yes. The president of the United States is not going to sign this, and all we're gonna do is shut the government down, and then we're gonna open up -- open it up, and the American people are gonna shake their heads and say, "what's the story with these Republicans?"  So I think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for Planned Parenthood. I was in the Congress for 18 years, balanced the budget, cut taxes, got it done. Changed welfare, went around the president to get welfare reform done.  There are ways to do it without having to shut the government down, but I'm sympathetic to the fact that we don't want this organization to get funding, and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family planning in other organizations that don't support this tactic.  But I would not be for shutting the government down...  
 ...because I don't think it's going to work out.  
 ...Dana, in a way that maximizes their value for sale for profit. It is disgusting, and the American people need to hear it...  
 ...we shouldn't be fighting with each other. She's the real opponent, she's the real problem.  
 I'll tell you what -- I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for. I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for. Why will  we put tax reform on the president's desk, so we can simplify this tax system?  
 No, no, it's really important, Dana. We got to talk about what we would be willing to shut down for. Why don't we put tax reform on this president's desk, and make him veto it if that's what he wants to do? Why haven't we repealed and replaced Obamacare?  Make him veto if that's what he wants to do.  
 There's a --  
 Jake --  
 OK, Jake.  
 I don't at this point in terms of changing the incentives for investment and risk-taking.  But let's just stop for a second. There's one person on this stage that does have a record. I'm the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget.  We also cut taxes. And when I left Washington in 2000, we had a $5 trillion surplus, and the economy was booming. I had spent 10 years of my life to get us to that point, went out in the private sector, was a great experience, and went into Ohio and took an $8 billion hole and turned it into a $2 billion surplus.  We've had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor. We've grown well over 300,000 jobs. You see, I've done it in both places. I'm the only one here that has done it in both places.  It took a lot to get us to a balanced budget. It was legitimate. It was real. And we negotiated it. A lot of what we're talking about here tonight as we take this position and that position, you know what? At the end of the day, America has got to work.  We've got to figure out how we come together to deal with this -- with our fiscal problems because when we deal with that, we create a stronger economy for everybody. People have a chance to rise.  So, you know, when we think about how we make a choice, it's the person that lands that plane. It's not somebody that talks about it. It's about the person who has done it. And I've done it in...  
 ... both places. And I did it including people in the other party. And that's how we were successful.  
 And that's how I will be president, using that experience to drive this country forward. Thank you.    
 Well, look, people still have to get to know me, so I want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare, balancing budgets, cutting taxes, providing economic growth when I was in Washington, turning Ohio around. Eight billion in the hole, $2 billion surplus, up over 300,000 jobs, big tax cuts, strengthening our credit.  All those things matter but, you know, as a young man in my first election in 1978, I defeated an incumbent Democrat. I defeated an incumbent Democrat in 1982; running on the Reagan program, I was the only Republican in America to defeat an incumbent Democrat that year.  And then, when I won for election of governor, I was the first Republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years, and the first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent. That hadn't happened for 96 years.  So, we'll get to the point where we'll talk about Hillary Clinton, or whoever the nominee is, record. But right now, I want to give people sense of hope, sense of purpose, a sense of unity, sense that we can do it. So...  
 You know, at the end of the day, I'm going to continue to talk about my record, because there is, did you ever notice when people run for office, they run for president, they make a lot of promises, they don't keep them.  
 I don't intend to do that, and I going to be out there pushing it out -- don't worry about me and Hillary. That will all work out, and I'm from Ohio. She will not beat me there, I can promise you that.    
 Can I just -- can I -- Jake, can I just make one point on this whole military discussion?  
 I called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest. You know, you win a battle with the military, and when we go somewhere, we need to be mobile, and lethal. We need to take care of business, and we need to come home.  But, we face, also, a bigger war -- and you win the bigger war with the battle of ideas. You wonder why young people, and educated people, rich people, schooled people, have tried to join ISIS.  Western civilization, all of us, need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out, and in Western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the Jewish and Christian principals force us to live a life bigger than ourselves...  
 ...to make  centers  of justice so that we can battle the radicals, call them out for what they are, and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in Western civilization...  
 ...This is a giant battle in the world today...  
 Well, it's probably not, maybe, legal, but, I would pick Mother Theresa, the lady that I had a chance to meet, a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own. An inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility to love our neighbor as we love ourselves.  
 Well, I have one now -- they  call me, "Unit One".  My wife says, "You'll never be Unite One, I'm Unite One. You're Unit Two." 
 Well, as president, I will make this a nation that will solve problems. And how? By having the elected officials and the leaders realize they're Americans before they're Republicans or Democrats. I did it in Washington. And I've done it in Ohio by having the elected officials realize that they're Ohioans before anything else.  Secondly, I will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world. We have no choice but to do that. We will be stronger when we are unified. And we'll fight for freedom and for human rights.  And finally, a little bit of what Carly said. The people that are out there listening, America was never great because we ran America from the top down. America is great because we have run America from the bottom up, where we all live in the neighborhoods.  One more time in America, we need to revive the concept of citizenship, where everybody's actions make a huge difference in changing the world. We have a Holocaust memorial on our state house grounds. And there is one line on there that stands out all the time. "If you've saved one life, you've changed the world."  We need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild and reinspire our country. Thank you.    
