Speaker: Marco Rubio
Date: 20160131
Category: Interview
Occasion: Meet the Press with Chuck Todd
Source: http://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/meet-press-january-31-2016-n508041
  Thank you.  
  Well, actually it--  
  No, no, no, but let me correct it-  
  Well, first-- The ad is first deceitful. It actually talks about cap and trade. And it literally clips my statement. Like, it stops my statement right when I start explaining that I'm against cap and trade and big government mandates. The Gang of Eight was a bill that was, that was dealt with three years ago. It was an effort to fix our immigration laws.  It was the best that could be done in a Senate that was controlled by Harry Reid at the time. And then the hope was that the House would take it up and make it better. But it was a way to start that. And in the absence of progress, that's how Barack Obama has now forced on America not one but two unconstitutional executive orders that seek to actually legalize people here with no enforcement.  Now, that's not the way we're going to do it when I'm president. When I'm president, when I'm the nominee, we're going to help, we're going to keep our majority in the House and Senate. And we are going to pass first and foremost immigration laws that secure our border. And until that is in place, we're not going to be able to do anything else. That's the lesson of the last ten years.  The American people, we do not have the political support to do it all at once. They do not trust the federal government to enforce immigration laws. And as a result, the key that unlocks the door to be able to make progress on immigration is to bring illegal immigration under control first. And we will do that when I'm president.  
  Well, that's not how we're going to do it when I'm president. I mean, that's not going to be the law that we're going to pass when I'm president.  
  Look, I tried to fix the problem. This is a real problem. And where are we today? We are worse off today than we were five years ago. We have more illegal immigrants here. We have two unconstitutional executive orders on amnesty. I went on-- to Washington to fix a problem.  Immigration is a serious problem. It impacts my state. And the state that I live in, we are impacted by illegal immigration in a dramatic way. This issue has to be dealt with. And each year, it gets harder to solve, more difficult to solve, but it is now clear, more than ever before, that you are not going to be able to do anything on immigration until you first bring illegal immigration under control and prove it to people. Not just pass a law that says it. And that's how we're going to do it when I'm president.  
  No, look, we have 11 people running for president that are running competitive campaigns. We have 11 people on the ground in Iowa spending money campaigning, working hard themselves to gain voters. So a lot of this is segmented right now. Ted Cruz is clearly the frontrunner in Iowa. I mean, he has 10,000 volunteers. He's spent millions of dollars here. He got every endorsement that he wanted.  And so we always knew that going in. But we feel really good about the progress that we're making here. We have taken on more negative attacks than every other candidate combined. Jeb Bush's super PAC has basically spent $30 million, a third of its money, attacking me. And yet we keep growing, and we feel real positive about it. We feel positive about what it's going to mean on Monday night in Iowa and what it's going to mean a week later in New Hampshire.  
  No you didn't. You cut it. There's more to that clip.  
  Yeah, but that's not the full clip. What you just played is not the full clip. Right after that, I said, "I'm not in favor of implementing it. I'm in favor of them bringing it back to the legislature. I do not support big government mandates." The context of that, that was in 2006 and '07, when the leading candidates for president were John McCain, Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton.  
  All three supported cap and trade. And I was the speaker of the House and I said, "There is a chance that the federal government will pass cap and trade. I'm not in favor of it. But if they do, we have to be prepared to comply with that requirement, even if we don't like it. And I don't want it to cost the state of Florida money to have to comply."  Everyone knew it. The Democrats knew that position. And when Charlie Crist proposed cap and trade, I was the first person to speak out against it in a full op-ed in The Miami Herald. But you didn't play the full clip. There is a com--  
  Right after that, there's even more.  
  Right.  
  You know, I don't think that's true. I think voters understand that to solve problems, it is going to take the ability to work with people that you don't agree with on a bunch of other issues. But we're not going to compromise on principles--  
  Look, I think people understand my higher-education ideas. I think student loan debt in America is a huge problem. We're not going to have free college, but I do think there's a bipartisan way to work on helping with student loans. That's why I worked with Mark Warner on it, and I've worked with other people on this sort of issue.  There are issues that we're not going to agree on, repealing ObamaCare. That's why we have elections. So I think if there's a chance to work together, and you don't have to betray your principles, you work together. But there are issues where you can't do that. And that's why we have elections and debate and all those sorts of things in America.  
  Again, I think it goes back to the fact that there are now 11 people running for president of the United States, running competitive campaigns. I mean, these are not third-rate candidates. These are former governors, CEOs of major companies. Serious people. And former Senator Rick Santorum. And they're campaigning hard. And so you've got the voters have a lot of choices. I think once the race narrows, I feel very good about our prospects.  
  I know, you'll need to ask the political strategist. I'm running for president of the United States. I'm not running--  
  And we will. And here's how we win. We win by having more delegates than anyone else, and more than half the delegates. And I'm very comfortable and confident that we're going to achieve that. But I don't think you're going to really get clarity on this race until the race narrows a little bit.  
  We just want to get as many votes as we can. We feel real positive about where it's going to lead to. Again, not all expectation game for us, we always knew we were an underdog in Iowa. Other people, I have a lot more people on the ground here, they spend a lot more money. But we're going to have a good night. We're going to have a lot of support. And I'm very excited about it.  
  Thank you.  
