Speaker:Marco Rubio
Date: 20160303
Category: Debate
Occasion: Republican Presidential Debate in Detroit
Source: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/04/us/politics/transcript-of-the-republican-presidential-debate-in-detroit.html?_r=0
 Yes, you know, Bret, let me say something. This campaign for the last year Donald Trump has basically mocked everybody with personal attacks. He has done so to people that are sitting on the stage today. He has done so about people that are disabled. He has done it about every candidate in this race.  So if there is anyone who has ever deserved to be attacked that way, it has been Donald Trump, for the way he has treated people in the campaign.  Now that said, I would much prefer to have a policy debate. I hope that’s what we will have here tonight. Let’s have a policy debate...  
 ... let’s talk about Donald Trump’s strategy and my strategy and Ted’s strategy and John Kasich’s strategy when it comes to ISIS. And on health care and on the important issues facing this country.  But let’s be honest too about all this. The media has given these personal attacks that Donald Trump has made an incredible amount of coverage. Let’s start talking again about the issues that matter to this country. I’m ready to do that starting right here right now tonight.  Advertisement  Continue reading the main story  
 Yes, I would just say a couple of things. There is no doubt that Donald has done well in these elections. There is no doubt about that. The numbers are there.  Here is what the numbers also say. Two-thirds of the people who have cast a vote in a Republican primary or caucus have voted against you. They do not want you to be our nominee.
 And, the reason why is because we are not going to turn over the conservative movement, or the party of Lincoln or Reagan, for example, to someone whose positions are not conservative. To someone who last week defended Planned Parenthood for 30 seconds a debate stage. To someone, for example, that has no ideas on foreign — someone who thinks the nuclear triad is a rock band from the 1980’s.  
 ... To someone who time and again on issue after issue has not proven that he has the principals...    
 ... That outline what the conservative movement has been about. And, as Ted said, the things that made America great.  America is great because of the conservative principles of limited government and free enterprise, and a strong national defense...  
 ... And, our nominee needs to be someone that stands by those things...  
 ... Donald has not demonstrated that.  
 ...   
 ...   
 ... ...  
 ... Of all the people on this stage, he performs the worst against Hillary Clinton.  
 ... If you’re our nominee, we will lose...  
 ... You lose by  points . She will wipe you out.  
 If you’re our nominee ...  
 ... Oh, excuse me ...  
 Well, first of all, government doesn’t...    First of all, Chris, my point is exactly right. He has spent a career of convincing Americans that he’s something that he’s not in exchange for their money. Now he’s trying to do the same in exchange for their country. This is a fact. He talks about these great businesses that he’s built. He inherited over $100 million.  
 And with that money, he lost more money than he made.  
 He can start tonight by announcing that all the Donald Trump clothing will no longer be made in China and in Mexico, but will be made here in the United States.    And on the issue of job creation, I find this interesting. The private sector creates jobs. The jobs of those of us in public service are to put in place policies that allow the economy to grow.  That’s the problem with the Democratic Party. They think government is what creates jobs. Government does not create jobs.  Now, the way you create jobs is you make America the easiest and the best place in the world to start a business or to expand an existing business. If you go on my website, marcorubio.com, you will see a real plan to fix our taxes, to roll back regulations, to repeal and replace Obamacare, not just lines around the states. Serious policies and proposals.  Advertisement  Continue reading the main story 
 Here we go.  
 Here we go. It’s personal.      
 The answer is, he’s not going to do it. And you know why? Because there are plenty of clothing makers in America.      
 If you go on my website, marcorubio.com, everything we have on there is made in America. The reason why he makes it in China or Mexico is because he can make more money on it. That’s why he’s doing it.  And the second point, you see what happens, again, when you challenge him on a policy issue. You asked him about the economy, and the first thing he does is launch an attack about some little guy thing. Because he doesn’t have answers.  Advertisement  Continue reading the main story 
 And he’s asking us to make him the president of the United States of America.     
 This is not a game.  
 Well, then answer the economy question.  
 But he doesn’t answer the employment question.
 You ever heard of Trump Steaks? You ever heard of Trump Vodka?  
 All of these companies he has ruined.  
 Trump Steaks is gone. You have ruined these companies.  
 Let’s see if he answers it.  
 All right, well, let’s hear it big Donald.  
 Well, first of all, let me say that on the issue of the off-the-record, that’s not up to the New York Times. That’s up to you, Donald. If tonight you tell the New York Times to release the audio, they will do it, and we can exactly see what your true views are on immigration...  
 ... because it is a major issue, in your campaign that you’ve made a center issue. Now, as far as my record on it is concerned, I absolutely want to solve this issue. And I did the best we could in a Senate that was controlled by liberal Democrats and Harry Reid in the hopes that the House, made up of conservatives, would take it up and make it even stronger. And I said that repeatedly at the time.  I’m not just saying that now; I said it throughout that process. We do need to do with this issue.   
 When I’m president it will not be dealt with the way it was done in the Senate.  It will be done first and foremost by bringing illegal immigration under control and proving it to the American people. And only after that is done can anything else happen.  And it will be something the American people support. We’ll see what they are willing to support. It’s not going to be an executive order and we’re not going to ram it down their throats.  
 That’s not accurate. I’m sorry, Megyn, that’s not accurate. That’s my — there were at least 300 Americans that applied last year, none of them were hired. Some of them...  
 ... have been interviewed...  
 ... They were not hired...  
 ... And, here’s why he does it this way, let me explain why he  H2-B...  
 ... Because when you bring them in this way, when you bring someone in on one of these visas they can’t go work for anybody else. They either work for you or they have to go back home. You basically have them captive, so you don’t have to worry about competing for higher wages with another hotel down the street. And, that’s why you bring workers from abroad.  You argue that you’re here to fight on behalf of the American worker, but when you have chances to help the American worker... ...  
 ... but when you have chances to help the American workers, you’re making your clothes overseas and you’re hiring your workers from overseas.    
 There were Americans in that hot area.  
 That’s correct, and Libya.  
 Correct.  
 Well, Bret, what I’ve argued from the very beginning is ISIS — in order to defeat ISIS, you must deny them operating spaces. This is how ISIS or any radical group, for that matter, can grow. It’s how Al Qaida was able to carry out 9/11, is that the Taliban gave them an operating space in Afghanistan.  Today that operating space has largely been based in Iraq and Syria, but I’ve been warning about the Libyan presence for the better part of two years. So they need to be targeted wherever they have an operating space. They do need to be defeated on the ground by a ground force made up primarily of Sunni Arabs themselves. This is a radical Sunni movement. They can only be defeated if they are driven out and the territory is held by Sunni Arabs. But it will require a specific number of American special operators, in combination with an increase in air strikes. And that will include, if necessary, operating spaces in Libya, which, in fact, they are using to project into the Sinai against Egypt and ultimately into Europe, as well.  
 ... This isn’t just about flexibility.  
 There’s a difference between flexibility and telling people whatever you think you need to say to get them to do what you want them to do.    
 And, that’s what Donald has done throughout his career.  
 Well, he did, and that’s why Trump University...  
 ... Is so relevant here. I saw this video last week where he’s sitting in front of a camera saying we’re going to hire the best people, and I’m going to hand pick them. There are going to be hand picked and instructors, the best instructors in the world. One of them, but the way, was the manager at a Buffalo Wild Wing. And, that’s who they hired to do this, and people borrowed money, and they signed up for this fake university.  And, these people owe all this money now, and they got nothing in return for it, but you are willing to say whatever you had to say...    
 ... To get them to give you their money...  
 ... And, we’re not going to do that to our country...  
 ... That’s false...  
 ... That’s false...  
 ... The Better Business Bureau gave it a “D” minus.  
 ... Go on my website, Marco Rubio.com...  
 ...  this anymore.  
 ... A third of the people ...  
 I spoke to one of the victims yesterday.  
 I spoke to one of the victims yesterday.  
 No, there are several. Obviously there are so many, I can’t talk to them every day. I spoke to one of them, he told me exactly what happened. They signed up for this course because they believed Mr. Trump was this fantastic businessman, that Donald is going to teach them the tricks of the trade.  They signed up. They paid $15,000 for this course. They were asked for additional money for this course. If they really wanted the real secrets of success, they had to pay even more money, and so they did.  And you know what they got in these courses? Stuff you can pull off of Zillow. When they finally realized what a scam it was, they asked for their money back.  And you refused to give them their money back. Why don’t you tonight...  
 Then why don’t you tonight say you’re going to give the money back to everybody who wants...  
 Megyn, this is why this is relevant to this election.  
 This is why, because he’s trying to do to the American voter what he did to the people that signed up for this course. He’s making promises he has no intention of keeping. And it won’t just be $36,000 that they lose, it’s our country that’s at stake here.  The future of the United States and the most important election in a generation, and he’s trying to con people into giving them their vote just like he conned these people into giving him their money. 
 Notice that’s not an answer.  
 There’s no — as you can see in his answer, it’s always the same thing.  
 He has defrauding people out of things, and not just — and not just, by the way, on the issue of Trump University. He had another development in Mexico that he had nothing to do with except his name on the building. People put money into that building.  
 They lost their money. Yes, licensing, but you told them you owned the building. So they gave him his money. They lost their money. Time and again...  
 Well, I know I’ve talked about it, and others in our campaign have talked about it, and other candidates have talked about it, as well. What happened in Flint was a terrible thing. It was systemic breakdown at every level of government, at both the federal and partially the — both the state and partially at the federal level, as well.  And by the way, the politicizing of it I think is unfair, because I don’t think that someone woke up one morning and said, “Let’s figure out how to poison the water system to hurt someone.”      ELECTION 2016 By TURNER COWLES, DAVE HORN, THOMAS KAPLAN, JONATHAN MAHLER and MEGAN TWOHEY 1:38 Fact Check: Michigan Republican Debate Continue reading the main storyVideo Fact Check: Michigan Republican Debate The New York Times checks assertions made by the Republican presidential candidates during Thursday’s debate in Detroit. By TURNER COWLES, DAVE HORN, THOMAS KAPLAN, JONATHAN MAHLER and MEGAN TWOHEY on Publish Date March 4, 2016. Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times. Watch in Times Video »  Embed Share Tweet But accountability is important. I will say, I give the governor credit. He took responsibility for what happened. And he’s talked about people being held accountable...    ... and the need for change, with Governor Snyder. But here’s the point. This should not be a partisan issue. The way the Democrats have tried to turn this into a partisan issue, that somehow Republicans woke up in the morning and decided, “Oh, it’s a good idea to poison some kids with lead.” It’s absurd. It’s outrageous. It isn’t true.    All of us are outraged by what happened. And we should work together to solve it. And there is a proper role for the government to play at the federal level, in helping local communities to respond to a catastrophe of this kind, not just to deal with the people that have been impacted by it, but to ensure that something like this never happens again.  
 As few as possible. The Second Amendment, as I’ve said before, is not a suggestion. It is the constitutional right of every American to protect themselves and their families. It is a right that — it is the Second Amendment for a reason.  It is right after the defense of the freedom of speech for a reason, for clearly the founders of our nation understood and the framers of the Constitution understood that you cannot have life and you cannot have liberty and cannot pursue happiness if you are not safe.
 And the Second Amendment — when people talk about gun laws, what they need to realize is, criminals don’t follow gun laws. They’re criminals. By definition, they ignore the law.    But the gun rights of Americans, if you are talking to a law- abiding citizen and a gun-owner like myself, if you pass a law, I will follow whatever the law is. A criminal will not do it. They will continue to pursue these guns on the black market, where they then go out and commit crimes and they steal guns from each other.  Gun laws are not effective. They simply do not provide for safety. But they do, however, ensure that law-abiding people don’t have access to weapons to protect themselves and guns to protect themselves, but criminals always will be well armed. They don’t care about the law; they don’t follow the law. We will protect the Second Amendment when I’m president of the United States.    
 When they’re done with the yoga, can I answer a question?  
 Unbelievable.  
 Well, he’s very flexible, so you never know.    
 Well, first of all, I think, as we’ve seen throughout this campaign, Donald has not shown a seriousness about the issues of foreign policy. He just simply hasn’t.  Whether it was the structure of our military, even today he was asked a question about the issue of commanders not following his lead on killing the family of terrorists. And his answer basically was, if I tell them to do it, they’re going to do it. Now that’s just not true.  Foreign policy is not only consequential, I think much of our future now depends on it. You know, I see a lot of young people at my events around the country. I feel great when they come.  And I always them that despite the hardships of the moment, I honestly believe that today’s Millennials have a chance to be the greatest generation we’ve had in 100 years. I really do.  Because the world today has hundreds of millions of people that can afford to be their clients, their customers, their partners, people they collaborate with. But that won’t happen if the world is dangerous and it’s unstable.  And that will require strong American leadership. The next president of the United States is going to have eight years of a mess of a foreign policy to clean up. That’s why it can’t be Hillary Clinton.  And quite frankly, that’s why it can’t be someone who simply has not shown the intellectual curiosity or the interest in learning about these very complicated issues. And Donald simply hasn’t.  
 But that doesn’t answer the question.   
 Yeah, I just want to — a couple points. Once again, he was pressed on a policy issue to show his understanding of the foreign policy, and his reaction was just to attack somebody else with a name.  Here’s the bottom line. And I’m going to repeat it again. The world today is as complicated and as complex as it has been certainly in a very — certainly in the lifetime of anybody here today. You indeed do have a lunatic in North Korea with nuclear weapons. You indeed do have the Chinese government taking over the most important shipping lane in the world. And Vladimir Putin, who you’ve expressed admiration for, Donald...  
 You’ve expressed admiration for him.  
 Donald, you said he’s a strong leader.  
 He is now dividing Europe up...  
 All right, I’m going to finish my statement here.  
 And he’s also sowing instability in the Middle East. You have Iran who’s going to get $100 billion of sanctions relief. You have radical jihadists spreading all over the world. This is a time for seriousness on these issues. You have yet to answer a single serious question about any of this. Will you give us a detailed answer about foreign policy any time you’re asked on it?  
 I’ll support the Republican nominee.  
 I’ll support Donald if he’s the Republican nominee, and let me tell you why. Because the Democrats have two people left in the race. One of them is a socialist. America doesn’t want to be a socialist country. If you want to be a socialist country, then move to a socialist country.  The other one is under FBI investigation. And not only is she under FBI investigation, she lied to the families of the victims of Benghazi, and anyone who lies to the families of victims who lost their lives in the service of our country can never be the commander- in-chief of the United States.  
 We must defeat Hillary Clinton.  
 Well, I know this has been an unusual election cycle, as it continues, and there’s a lot of problems in America, and people are truly hurting. But this election is not just about confronting our problems; it’s also about embracing our opportunities.  I believe the 21st century holds the potential to be the greatest era in the history of the United States, if we get this election right and if we act now. If we do, if we do what needs to be done, we can leave our children as the freest and most prosperous Americans that have ever lived, and the 21st century can be the greatest era in the amazing story of America. So I ask everyone to vote for me and join our effort at marcorubio.com.    
