Speaker:Marco Rubio
Date: 20160225
Category: Debate
Occasion: 10th Republican debate in Houston
Source: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/02/25/the-cnntelemundo-republican-debate-transcript-annotated/
 Well, thank you. This election, we have to decide the identity of America in the 2ist century, but as part of this primary, we have to find out our identity as a party and as a movement.  Thirty-six years ago, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush began the Reagan Revolution. For a generation, they defined conservatism as limited government and free enterprise and a strong national defense. But they also appealed to our hopes and our dreams. Now we have to decide if we are still that kind of party and still that kind of movement, or if we're simply going to become a party that preys on people's angers and fears.  I hope we remain that conservative movement that appeals to our hopes and our dreams and the belief that America will always be better in its future than it's been in its story history.    
 Senator Cruz has called your immigration plan amnesty, and has an add out there comparing it to President Obama's. He says both of you support allowing undocumented immigrants legal status here in the United States after a background check, paying a fine, and paying taxes.  Are those claims correct?  
 Well, first of all, and before we do anything, I've been abundantly clear on this. When I'm president of the United States, before we do anything on immigration, we are going to secure the border. And, that's not just the physical border with Mexico, it's Visa overstays. That's 45 percent of the problem right there.  
 It also has to do -- that's why we need e-verify, and entry-exit tracking system, and so-forth. And, until that happens, we're not doing anything else. And then we'll see what the American people are willing to support.   And Donald mentioned, because he mentioned me in his answer, that his position on immigration is what has driven this debate. Well, the truth is, though, that a lot of these positions that he's now taking are new to him.  In 2011, he talked about the need for a pathway to citizenship. In 2012, Donald criticized Mitt Romney, saying that Mitt lost his election because of self-deportation.  And so even today, we saw a report in one of the newspapers that Donald, you've hired a significant number of people from other countries to take jobs that Americans could have filled.  My mom and dad -- my mom was a maid at a hotel, and instead of hiring an American like her, you have brought in over a thousand people from all over the world to fill those jobs instead.  So I think this is an important issue. And I think we are realizing increasingly that it's an important issue for the country that has been debated for 30 years, but finally needs to be solved once and for all.  
 That -- my point that I made was you had criticized Mitt Romney for self-deportation. You said that his strategy of self- deportation is why he lost the election.  And I think people in Florida would be surprised, because, in fact, the article that was today, they interviewed a number of people that would have been willing to do those jobs, if you would have been willing to hire them to do it.  
 No, he...  
 Well, in fact, I agree we should have won and I wished we would have, but, in fact, you did criticize him for using the term "self-deportation." I mean, that's on the record and people can look it up right now online.  But, again, I just want to reiterate, I think it's really important, this point. I think it's fine, it's an important point that you raise and we discuss on immigration. This is a big issue for Texas, a huge issue for the country.  But I also think that if you're going to claim that you're the only one that lifted this into the campaign, that you acknowledge that, for example, you're only person on this stage that has ever been fined for hiring people to work on your projects illegally.  You hired some workers from Poland...  
 In fact, some of the people...    
 Yes, you've hired a thousand from another country...  
 Let me just say -- let me finish the statement. This is important.  
 He hired workers from Poland. And he had to pay a million dollars or so in a judgment from...  
 That's a fact. People can look it up. I'm sure people are Googling it right now. Look it up. "Trump Polish workers," you'll see a million dollars for hiring illegal workers on one of his projects. He did it.    
 That happened.  
 Many from other countries instead of hiring Americans.  
 You paid a million dollars.  
 Yeah, a couple points. If he builds the wall the way he built Trump Towers, he'll be using illegal immigrant labor to do it. The second...    
 But it -- no, it's not a sound bite. It's a fact. Again, go online and Google it. Donald Trump, Polish workers. You'll see it.  The second thing, about the trade war -- I don't understand, because your ties and the clothes you make is made in Mexico and in China. So you're gonna be starting a trade war against your own ties and your own suits.  
 Why don't you make them in America?  
 Well, then make them in America.  
 Well, make them in America.  
 Well then, make them in America.  
 Well, make them in America.  
 And so you make them in China and in Russia.  
 Well, I don't know anything about bankrupting four companies. You've bankrupted..  
 I don't know anything about...  
 ... starting a university, and that was a fake university.  
 There are people who borrowed $36,000...  
 ... to go to Trump University, and they're suing now -- $36,000 to go to a university...  
 ... that's a fake school.  
 And you know what they got? They got to take a picture with a cardboard cutout of Donald Trump...  
 That's what they got for $36,000.  
 Most of the lawsuits.  
 He's talked through the whole thing.    
 Here's a guy that inherited $200 million. If he hadn't inherited $200 million, you know where Donald Trump would be right now?  
 Selling watches in     
 That's where he would be. 
 Oh, OK. One million.  
 Better release your tax returns so we can see how much money he made.  
 Oh, he doesn't make that money.  
 Correct.  
 It didn't change.  
 No, it's the same policy. It will have to end at some moment, and as I said, we will -- we will eliminate that executive order. The people that are on it now will not be allowed to renew it, and new applicants will not be allowed to apply to it. And it's not because we're not compassionate to the plight of a 2 -- someone who came here when they were 2 years old. I understand. I know people that are personally impacted by this.  The problem with the executive order is it is unconstitutional. The president doesn't have the power to do that.    And he himself admitted that.  
 I'm sorry, but let me finish my...  
 No, but this is not about deportation. Everybody always goes immediately to the issue of deportation. This is about DACA. DACA is an executive order that is unconstitutional. I will cancel it on my first day in office, which means people who currently hold those permits will not be allowed to renew them when they expire, and new people will not be allowed to apply for them.  Now, I am sympathetic to the plight of someone who came here when they were 2 or 3 years old through no fault of their own, but you can't solve it doing something that is unconstitutional. No matter how sympathetic we may be to a cause, we cannot violate the Constitution of the United States the way this president now does on a regular basis.    
 Because it is not true that I'm not going to get rid of DACA. I am going to get rid of DACA. In the Spanish interview, you just read out the transcript in Spanish, I said, it will have to end at some point. That point will be when I eliminate the executive order and the people who have those permits when they expire will not be allowed to renew it. And new people will not be able to apply. In fact, I don't even think we should be taking new enrollees in the program now.  That is how the program ends and how you wind it down is you allow the people who are on it, when the program expires, they cannot renew it, and it goes away. But I will cancel the executive order as soon as I take -- as soon as I step foot into the Oval Office.  
 You lied about the Polish workers.  
 You lied to the students at Trump University.  
 Oh, he lied 38 years ago. All right, I guess there's a statute of limitation on lies.     
 That's not an accurate assessment of what I said about ethanol. What I said is that ethanol will phase out, it is phasing out now. By 2022 that program expires by virtue of the existing law, and at that point it will go away. I don't agree with the mandate and the program that's in place, but I think it's unfair that these people have gone out and invested all this money into this program and we're just going to yank it away from them.  And, again, you read the statement in Spanish. I said very clearly on Spanish television, DACA will have to end at some point, and that point is -- at that time I was not a candidate for president. I said it will end in my first day in office as president, and the people who have it now will not be able to renew it. New applicants will not be able to apply. That is the end of DACA.  I am sympathetic to this cause, but once again, it cannot supersede the Constitution of the United States which this president habitually and routinely every single day ignores and violates.     
 I'm sorry I was mentioned...  
 Maria I was mentioned in that. I was mentioned in that statement.  
 ... OK. I was mentioned -- just because of the hispanic -- and I'll be brief.  A couple points, number one, I do think it's amazing that on this stage tonight there are two descendants of Cuban origin, and an African American. We are the party of diversity, not the Democratic party.     And, the second point I would make is that we have to move past this idea that somehow the hispanic community only cares about immigration.  Yes, it's an important issue because we know and love people that have been impacted by it. But, I'm going to tell you that the most powerful sentiment in the hispanic community, as it is in every immigrant community, is the burning desire to leave your children better off than yourself...    
 ... and, you can only do that through free enterprise. That's what we stand for, not socialism like Bernie Sanders, and increasingly Hillary Clinton.    
 Well, I think you ask a very important question, because the issue here -- the next president of the United States has to fill this vacancy.  Justice Scalia -- in the history of the republic, there has never been anyone better than him at standing for the principle that the Constitution is not a living and breathing document -- it is supposed to be applied as originally meant.  And the next president of the United States has to be someone that you can trust and believe in to appoint someone just as good as Scalia -- plus there may be at least two other vacancies.  So you ask Mr. Trump to respond and say that he would, and he says that he would. But the bottom line is, if you look at his record over the last 25 or 30 years, on issue after issue, he has not been on our side.  Now, if he's changed, we're always looking for converts into the conservative movement. But the bottom line is that, if  you don't have a record there to look at and say, "I feel at peace that when Donald Trump is president of the United States, he's going to be firmly on our side on these issues."  In fact, very recently, he was still defending Planned Parenthood. He says he's not going to take sides in the Palestinians versus Israel. These are concerning things.  And so, yes, I have a doubt about whether Donald Trump, if he becomes president, will replace Justice Scalia with someone just like Justice Scalia.  
 The individual mandate. He said he likes the individual mandate portion of it, which I don't believe that should be part of it. That should not remain there. I think here's what we need to replace it with.  We need to repeal Obamacare completely and replace it with a system that puts Americans in charge of their health care money again. If your employer wants to buy health insurance for you, they can continue to do so from any company in America they want to buy it from.  Otherwise, your employers can provide you health care money, tax- free, not treated as income, and you can use that money only for health care, but you can use it to fund health care any way you want, fully fund a health savings account, the combination of a health savings account or a private plan from any company in any state in the country.  And if you don't have that, then you will have a refundable tax credit that provides you health care money to buy your own health care coverage. And that, I think, is a much better approach than Obamacare, which, by the way, isn't just bad for health care, it's bad for our economy. It is a health care law that is basically forcing companies to lay people off, cut people's hours, move people to part-time. It is not just a bad health care law, it is a job-killing law. And I will repeal it as president and we will replace it with something substantially better for all Americans.    
 Dana, I was mentioned in his response, so if I may about the insurance companies...  
 You may not be aware of this, Donald, because you don't follow this stuff very closely, but here's what happened. When they passed Obamacare they put a bailout fund in Obamacare. All these lobbyists you keep talking about, they put a bailout fund in the law that would allow public money to be used, taxpayer money, to bail out companies when they lost money.  And, we led the effort and wiped out that bailout fund. The insurance companies are not in favor of me, they hate that. They're suing that now to get that bailout money put back in.  Here's what you didn't hear in that answer, and this is important guys, this is an important thing. What is your plan? I understand the lines around the state, whatever that means. This is not a game where you draw maps...  
 ... What is your plan, Mr. Trump?    
 What is your plan on healthcare?  
 ... What's your plan...  
 ... What's your plan... 
 ... We already mentioned that  plan, I know what that is, but what else is part of your plan...  
 ... So, you're only thing is to get rid of the lines around the states. What else is part of your healthcare plan...  
 ... That's your only plan...  
 ... Alright, ...  
 ... His plan. That was the plan...  
 Alright...    
 So, that's the only part of the plan? Just the lines?  
 Now he's repeating himself.  
     
 ... I just watched you repeat yourself five times five seconds ago...    
 ... I see him repeat himself every night, he says five things, everyone's dumb, he's gonna make America great again...  
 ... We're going to win, win win, he's winning in the polls...  
 ... And the lines around the state.    
 ... Every night.  
 ... Yeah, he's going to give us his plan now, right? OK...  
 ... He's done it again.     
 Alright.  
 Well, can I just clarify something?  
 Wolf, no. I want to clarify something.  
 This is a Republican debate, right? Because that attack about letting people die in the streets...  
 Yes, tomorrow or Saturday, in fact, is our plan to release them. And there's nothing really that interesting in them. So I have no problem releasing them. And luckily I'm not being audited this year, or last year, for that matter.    
 But this is my time. I want to go back to this question you asked about the debt. This is an important issue. It's a huge issue, OK? In less than five years, 83 percent of our entire budget will be made up of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the interest on the debt.  That means only 17 percent of our budget will be for things like the military or the Department of Education or environmental protection issues.  You cannot balance our budget unless you deal with that 83 percent, which is why I've been repeatedly talking about since my time running for the Senate in Florida, where there are a lot of people like my mother that depend on Social Security and Medicare, on the need to save those programs, by reforming the way they work for future generations.  And I think if we -- the longer we take to do this, the closer we are going to get to a debt crisis. And, Wolf, you did not get an answer to your question. This debt issue is -- the next president of the United States will not be able to serve four to eight years without dealing with the national debt.  It is not a question of if, it is a question of when we have a debt crisis. And we should not leave the stage here tonight without hearing a serious answer from every single one of us about how we are going to deal bring the national debt under control once and for all.  
 Because -- and I don't know if Donald realizes this. I'm sure it's not his intent perhaps. But the position you've taken is an anti-Israel position. And here's why. Because you cannot be an honest broker in a dispute between two sides in which one of the sides is constantly acting in bad faith. The Palestinian Authority has walked away from multiple efforts to make peace, very generous offers from the Israels. Instead, here's what the Palestinians do. They teach their four- year-old children that killing Jews is a glorious thing. Here's what Hamas does. They launch rockets and terrorist attacks again Israel on an ongoing basis. The bottom line is, a deal between Israel and the Palestinians, given the current makeup of the Palestinians, is not possible.  And so the next president of the United States needs to be someone like me who will stand firmly on the side of Israel. I'm not -- I'm not going to sit here and say, "Oh, I'm not on either side." I will be on a side. I will be on Israel's side every single day because they are the only pro-American, free enterprise democracy in the entire Middle East.    
 He thinks a Palestinian is a real estate deal.  
 The Palestinians are not a real estate deal, Donald.  
 A deal is not a deal when you're dealing with terrorists. Have you ever negotiated with terrorists?  
 ... Donald, might be able to  Palestinians and Arabs, but it's not a real estate deal...  
 Yes, a couple of points. Number one, on the Libya situation, we didn't topple Gadhafi, the Libyan people toppled Gadhafi. The only choice before America that this president had to make is, does it happen quickly or does it take a long time?  And I argued if it takes a long time, you're going to have rebel forces emerge like these radical Islamists to take advantage of the vacuum. And that's what happened. That's where the term "lead from behind" came. And that's the foreign policy that apparently Senator Cruz appears to agree with.  On John Kerry, yes, you know why, because every day John Kerry wasn't appointed was another day Hillary Clinton was still in charge of the State Department. And she was absolutely horrible.  I couldn't imagine that they were going to find somebody even worse than her, but this president never ceases to amaze.      
 And the last point I would make on South Korea, now this is important, because we're asking to be commander-in-chief. Donald is asking to be commander-in-chief. And he's saying these guys need to do more.  South Korea contributes $800 million a year to that effort. And Japan contributes as well. And here's why our commitment to that regional security is so critical, Donald, because if we walk away from them, both Japan and South Korea will become nuclear weapons powers.  They can do that very quickly. And that's what they will do if the American defense agreements wither away, which is why we have to rebuild the military, but why we can't walk away from our Asia-Pacific defense status.  
 How much?  
 This guy always goes for...  
 This is so typical.  
 No, in fact what I have said is the only thing -- the FBI made this very clear 48 hours ago -- the only thing they are asking of Apple is that Apple allow them to use their own systems in the FBI to try to guess the password of the San Bernardino killer. Apple initially came out saying, "We're being ordered to create a back door to an encryption device." That is not accurate.  The only thing they're being asked to do, and the FBI made this very clear about 48 hours ago, is allow us to disable the self- destruct mode that's in the Apple phone so that we can try to guess using our own systems what the password of this killer was.  And I think they should comply with that. If that's all they're asking for, they are not asking for Apple to create a back door to encryption.  
 Because at the time, Apple was portraying that the court order was to create a back door to an encryption device.  
 To comply with an order that says that they have to allow the FBI the opportunity to try to guess the password?  
 Absolutely. That Apple phone didn't even belong to the killer. It belonged to the killer's employee  who have agreed to allow him to try to do this. That is all they're asking them to do is to disable the self-destruct mode or the auto-erase mode on one phone in the entire world. But Apple doesn't want to do it because they think it hurts their brand.  Well, let me tell you, their brand is not superior to the national security of the United States of America.    
 Sure, because bankruptcy doesn't work unless you change the way you're operating, or you're going to be bankrupt again. And, the problem with Puerto Rico is it's economy is not growing. It has a massive exodus of professionals and others that are leaving to my home state of Florida, and all over the country.  They're coming to the mainland from Puerto Rico because the economy there is not growing, it's too expensive to do business there. The tax rate is too high. The government regulations are too extensive.  This year alone, with all the problems they're having, they barely cut their budget from one year to the next. So, I think the leadership on the island has to show their willingness to get their house in order and put in place measures allow the economy there to grow again. If the economy of Puerto Rico does not grow they will never generate the revenue to pay this debt, or the billions of dollars in unfunded liabilities that they have on their books of promises they've made to future generations to make payments.  So, yes, if they do all of those things then we can explore the use of bankruptcy protection, but not as the first resort, which is what they're asking for, because it will not solve the problems on the island and you're going to continue to see hundreds of thousands of people leave that beautiful place, and coming to the mainland.  They're United States citizens, they're obviously entitled to do so, and we welcome them, but we would also prefer to see a Puerto Rico that once again is growing economically, and is robust. And, the leaders in charge there now are doing a terrible job.  Their previous governor, Louis Fortuno was doing a great job until he barely lost that election to...    
 ... to someone who has taken a big government stance  once again...  
 Well, thank you for having us tonight. You know, this campaign has come a long way. It was just a few months ago there were 15 or 11 us on the stage and now it's narrowed and the votes are starting to count. And we have an incredible decision to make, not just about the direction of America, but the identity of our party and of the conservative movement.  
 The time for games is over.  I know you've had a lot of choices to make, but now it's time to narrow it down. And I'm asking you to get behind me, go on our Web site and join you our effort, marcorubio.com, so we can bring an end to this silliness, this looniness, and once again re-embrace all the things that made America and the Republican Party the bearer of the conservative movement in this country.    
