Speaker:Marco Rubio
Date: 20160221
Category: Interview
Occasion: Face the Nation on CBS with John Dickerson
Source: http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcripts-february-21-2016-trump-rubio-sanders-cruz-kasich/
 No, you have to make that happen.  But part of the dynamic up to this point is, Donald has been in the mid-30s to low 30s, high 20s in most polls. And then you have 70 percent of the Republican electorate that says, we're not voting for him. But they're divided up among five or seven people.  So, as that five or seven people continues to narrow down, I think it's going to make the race clearer and clearer. Of course, we still have to go out and earn that vote. And, by the way, there are people supporting Donald Trump that we believe we can win over as well.  And so it is a smaller race and field today than it was last night. I think, practically speaking, it is down to three people who are still running full-scale national campaigns. I have tremendous respect for Governor Carson. I know he's going to stay in the race and continue to fight. And I know John Kasich is out there basically going to spend a week in Michigan and make that his priority.  But today alone, we're going to be in three states and we're going to continue to campaign everywhere. And we feel really good about this coalescing. And, of course, if anyone wants to join our effort, they should go to our Web site, MarcoRubio.com. We need their help.  
 Well, I think our -- here is the argument. Number one, I'm very realistic about the challenges we face. OK? I have seen it up close in 2010. It's why I ran for the Senate five years ago. I have only been there five years, but it's been enough time to know the damage Barack Obama has done to this country.  But while I'm realistic about our challenges, I'm optimistic about our future. There are a few things, and if we do them, we're going to have the greatest era in our history. And I have detailed what those things are specifically.  And I think that is important. If you're running to be president of the United States, you can't just tell people you're going to make America great again. I think you need to begin to explain exactly how you're going to do it policy-wise. We're not going to win a general election with a candidate that refuses to detail policy.  Obviously, Donald still has time to do that, and then we can have a policy debate about whose ideas are better. But I honestly believe that once people begin to understand what's at stake here, that we have a chance here not just to make our country great, but greater than it's ever been, and we have a plan to do it, I think is going to begin to influence a lot of voters, not to mention coalesce those maybe who were with someone else first around us.  
 Well, I think strong rhetoric and strong action are two separate things.  Anyone can use tough words. Anyone can go over the top and say things that sound strong. But sounding strong is not enough. You have to know exactly how you're going to do it. And if you look at some of the policies he's talked about, they would not make America stronger.  His views on Vladimir Putin, I think, are troubling. And I don't think he fundamentally understands exactly who Vladimir Putin is or exactly what he's trying to do. So, these are the kinds of things that I think in detail you need to begin to understand.  When you're the commander in chief, you're the commander in chief on day one. You don't get like a six-month grace period. The world doesn't just stop and say, well, let's wait until the president catches up before we start challenging America.  You have got to know what you're doing on your very first day there. So, look, this is not an attack or anything of that nature. It's just a very simple observation. If you want to be president, you have to start detailing some specific public policy. And I don't think from this point forward in the campaign, voters are going to be as tolerant of the lack of that as they have been up to now.  
 Oh, I mean, on everything, about -- on health care. We all agree we're going to repeal Obamacare, but what will you replace it with?  And that's something we have detailed and he has not. I think, again, on issues of energy, how are we going to fully utilize our energy resources in this country? What is the role of the federal government in higher education? What kind of justices would you appoint to the Supreme Court, not just because we have a vacancy now, but at least one or two potentially in the next four to eight years?  I mean, on virtually every major issue before this country that is the natural purview of the federal government, it's important to have some specificity about what you're going to do if you want to be the president. And so I agree that, up until this point, it hasn't been a huge factor.  But it will be moving forward. And let me just say this. The Democrats, if we nominate someone who is nebulous about these things, they're going to eat our lunch in November. And so we have to absolutely have someone ready to go that can win, because we cannot lose this election. Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders cannot be the next president of the United States.  
 No, I don't think so, because, as I explained earlier, when you have seven or eight people competing for the same chunk of votes, it's a lot of votes, but you have seven or eight people, it's all segmented.  I think now that the race begins to narrow, you are going to have clearer indication of it.  
 And as we looked at this race, we understood that this narrowing had to happen before the winner-take-all states that will begin in the middle of March. So, we feel good about the states we're going into and the process they award delegates by.  And we're in real good shape. We got to keep working hard.  
 Thank you. 
