Speaker:Bernie Sanders
Date: 20160221
Category: Interview
Occasion: Face the Nation on CBS with John Dickerson
Source: http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcripts-february-21-2016-trump-rubio-sanders-cruz-kasich/
 Well, John, I'm talking to you from Columbia, South Carolina.  We have a major rally this evening. We're not skipping over anything. But I think that, after South Carolina, we have 11 states. We stand a good chance of winning a number of those states. We think we have a whole lot of momentum.  You know, we lost yesterday in Nevada by five points. A month ago, we were 25 points behind. If you look at the national polls, those numbers are tightening up. In some cases, we're actually ahead nationally. So, I think people around this country are responding to our message of a rigged economy, a corrupt campaign, finance system and a broken criminal justice system. I'm feeling quite good.  
 No, this is not a message campaign. We're in this race to win.  And I think, on Super Tuesday, for example, you are going to see some major, major victories. And, John, as you know, and I hope most people know, that these primary elections and caucus elections are proportional. And that means that it's not winner-take-all.  For example, Hillary Clinton in Nevada got 19 delegates. We got 15 delegates. We are going to need 2,400 delegates to win. And so it's a state-by-state process. We are going to win some big states, I think, on Super Tuesday.  
 Well, I think, remember, when we start this campaign -- when we started this campaign, Hillary Clinton is almost universally known.  She was a first lady. She was a secretary of state. She was a senator. I am a senator from the very small state and great state of Vermont. Not a lot of people know me. They don't know my experience, my 25 years in Congress, my eight years as mayor of the city of Burlington.  So, we got to get that word out. I think we are making progress, but we have long way to go. People also have got to understand the agenda that we are fighting for. This is a senator who has taken on every powerful special interest, whether it's Wall Street, whether it's drug companies who are ripping off the American people, the military industrial complex.  I think the more people know our record, the better we do. And I would point out, John, that, just yesterday, to the best of my knowledge, we actually won the Latino vote in Nevada. That is a major breakthrough for us in reaching out to a diverse nation.  
 We are making inroads.  We are doing better. Interestingly, a lot of the polling that I see is not along racial lines, but along generational lines. We are doing better and better among younger people, not so well among older people, whether they're African-American, whether they're white or whether they're Latino.  But we have a -- you're right. We have a lot of work to do. But I think, when the African-American community understands my record on criminal justice, my record on economics, the agenda we're bringing forth, raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour, dealing with the fact that we have more people in jail, shamefully, than any other country on Earth, that I am against the death penalty, Secretary Clinton is not, I think, as people become familiar with my ideas, we are going to do better and better.  
