Speaker:Bernie Sanders
Date: 20160125
Category: Debate
Occasion: Democratic Primary Debate, Des Moines, IA
Source: http://cnnpressroom.blogs.cnn.com/2016/01/26/cnn-iowa-democratic-presidential-town-hall-rush-transcript/
  If a bank is too big to fail, it's too big to exist.  O'
  What we do not allow, Donald Trump and the others to divide us up.  There is nothing, nothing that we cannot accomplish.    
  Hi, Chris.  How are you?     
  Yes.          
  And my wife told me to button my coat but I think I'm too fat, so I'm going to keep it like this.          
  Chris, our message has resonated much faster, much further than I thought it would.     And I think what the American people are perceiving is there is something very wrong in this country when ordinary Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, when we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country on earth, and almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1 percent.     And then on top of that, people see that that rigged economy is sustained by a corrupt, and I use that word advisedly, a corrupt campaign finance system that allows billionaires today to spend as much money as they want through Super PACs to elect the candidates of their choice. And, all over this country, and it's not just Democrats, it is conservatives, it is Republicans, that are saying that is not what America is supposed to be about.     So, if you're asking me why is it that our campaign has created the kind of momentum that it has, I think we are touching a nerve with the American people who understand that establishment politics is just not good enough. We need bold changes, we need a political revolution.     
 President Obama is obviously right. Being president is an enormously difficult job. It's a job that entails dealing with a million different issues. I think I have the background, I think I have the judgement to do that.     I would remind you, and remind the viewers that in 2002, when George W. Bush and Dick Cheney said we should go to war in Iraq, Bernie Sanders listened very carefully and I said no. I think that war is a dumb idea. I helped lead the opposition to that war.     And, if you go to my website, listen to what I said, and sadly enough - it gives me no joy. Much of what I feared would happen did happen. I do believe I have the background for the job.     
 ...  Sure...     
 Well, what Democratic Socialism means, to me, is that economic rights, the right to economic security is -  should exist in the United States of America. It means to me that there's something wrong when we have millions of senior citizens today trying to get by on $11, $12,000 a year Social Security. It means there's something wrong when the rich get richer, and almost everybody else gets poorer. It means there is something wrong, and government should play a role in making sure that all of our kids, regardless of their income, are able to get a higher education.     Which is why I'm calling for free tuition at public colleges and universities, and why we have to deal with this horrendous level of student debt that people are having.     Now, what's going on in countries around the world, in Scandinavia, and in Germany. The ideas that I am talking about are not radical ideas. So, what Democratic Socialism means to me in its essence is that we cannot continue to have a government dominated by the billionaire class, and a congress that continues to work for the interest of the people on top while ignoring working families.     What this campaign is about, and what I believe, is creating a government that works for all of us, not just a handful of people on the top. That's my definition of Democratic Socialism.          
 Well, I think people will support my medical - Medicare for All program because the United States today is the only major country on Earth that doesn't guarantee health care to all people as a right.     Now, I'm on the committee that wrote the Affordable Care Act, and I think the Affordable Care Act has done a lot of good things.     But yet we have 29 million people without any health insurance.  Your point is there are seniors today - and I meet them every day - who cannot afford the outrageously high cost of prescription drugs because in America - everybody should know this - we pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.     Last year, while one out of five Americans cannot afford the prescriptions their doctors write, last year, the three major drug companies made $45 billion in profit because they spent hundreds of millions of dollars on lobbying and campaign contributions.     So I believe we should draw in the rest of the world.  I believe, as a principle, everybody should be entitled to health care as a right, comprehensive health care.     And, by the way, if we move toward a Medicare for all, not only do we cover the needs of all people, including that gentleman, we will save middle class people thousands of dollars a year on their health care bills, because now we pay, by far, per capita, much, much more than any other country on Earth.     It is time, in my view, for us to have the courage to take on the insurance companies, take on the drug companies and provide health care to all people at an affordable cost.     
  But, Chris, that is an unfair criticism for the following reason.  If you are paying now $10,000 a year to a private health insurance company and I say to you, hypothetically, you're going to pay $5,000 more in taxes - or actually less than that, but you're not going to pay any more private health insurance, are you going to be complaining about the fact that I've saved you $5,000 in your total bills?     So it's demagogic to say oh, you're paying more in taxes.  Let's also talk about we are going to liminate - eliminate private health insurance premiums and payments not only for individuals, but for businesses, as well.     Again, we are the only country on Earth that allows private insurance companies to rip us off.  We spend three times more than the British, 50 percent more than the French.  We can do better than we're doing right now.          
  Yes, we will raise - we will raise the - we will raise taxes, yes, we will.  But also let us be clear, Chris, because there's a little bit of disingenuity out there, we may raise taxes but we are also going to eliminate private health insurance premiums for individuals and for businesses.     
  Good.     
  Sean, great question and a very fair question.     And I start off with the premise that in the last 30 years, although my Republican friends don't like the term, there's been a massive redistribution of wealth in this country.  It's gone from working families, trillions of dollars, to the top one tenth of 1 percent.     So, yes, what this campaign is about is to say to profitable corporations who, in some years don't pay a nickel in taxes, to the wealthiest people in this country who sometimes have an effective tax rate lower than truck drivers or nurses, yes, you are going to start paying your fair share of taxes.     Now how am I going to pay to make certain that public colleges and universities are tuition-free and we substantially lower interest rates on student debt?     I pay for that because we're going to ask Wall Street to pay a tax on speculation.  We are also believing, I believe that after the working families of this country bailed out Wall Street, maybe it's their time to help the middle class of this country.          
  Now, I believe that we have an infrastructure that is crumbling.  That's roads, bridges, rail, airports, levies, dams.  We all know what's happening in Flint, Michigan.  Water systems, wastewater plants.     I believe that if we end this absurdity of allowing corporations who make billions of dollars a year in profits to stash their money in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and other tax havens, we eliminate that, we're going to bring $100 billion into the Treasury.  That money goes into rebuilding our infrastructure, creating 13 million jobs in five years with a trillion dollar investment.     I have paid for all of our proposals.     
 Alright, we got to put what I am doing in context. And, here's the context. Today in America we have more income and wealth inequality than we have had since 1928. There has, Chris, been a massive transfer of wealth, I'm talking about trillions of dollars, from the pockets of working families into the hands of the top one-tenth of one percent. That's a fact.     So, if you are telling me that at a time when - Wall Street's recklessness, greed and illegal behavior brought this country to its knees, than I am going to say to them that they're going to have to start paying their fair share of taxes. Fine, if that's the criticism I accept it. I demand that Wall Street start paying its fair share of taxes.     Second of all...          
 Again. I believe, and you know, Iowa has played a very interesting role in the fight for public education. And, for a 100 plus years, what we have believed public education to be is up to the twelfth grade. Free public education up to the twelfth grade. Guess what? The world has changed.     A college degree today is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago. People want to criticize me, fine. I believe that every kid in this country who has the ability and the desire should be able to get a higher education regardless of the income of his family. And I will pay for that through a tax on Wall Street speculation.     
 The era of protecting the middle class, and working families is certainly something that I will make happen. I believe, for example, that when my Republican colleagues talk about cutting Social Security, I say that when you're living on $12,000 a year in Social Security, no, we shouldn't cut it. We should expand Social Security. And, we do that by lifting the cap on taxable income.          
 So, Chris, this is what I think. When we live in a nation of so much income and wealth inequality, where the top one tenth of 1% owns as much as the bottom 90%, when the 20 wealthiest people own more wealth than the bottom half of America, that is not, to me, what the American economy should be about. So, yes. People want to criticize me, OK. I will take on the greed of corporate America and the greed of Wall Street, and fight to protect the middle class.     
 Great question. Let me answer it, if I might, in two ways.     I am probably the most progressive member in the U.S. Senate. But, I have over the years, not only in the Senate, but in the House, worked with Republicans when there was common ground. When I was in the House, in a number of years I got more amendments passed on the floor of the House working with Republicans than anyone else. That was number one.     Number two. In the Senate, just a couple of years ago, in a dysfunctional congress I worked with people like John McCain, people like Jeff Miller over in the House, to pass the most comprehensive Veterans Health Care legislation in the modern history of the United States of America.     I have worked with Republicans when there is common ground throughout my career. But, this is what I also want to say. But this is what I also want to say.  In my view, you have a Congress today that is much more worried about protecting the interest of the wealthy and the powerful and making sure they get campaign contributions from the wealthy and the powerful.     If we are serious about rebuilding the American middle class, if we are serious about providing paid family and medical leave to all of our people, if we are serious about ending the disgrace of having so many of our children live in poverty, the real way to do it is to have millions of Americans finally stand up and say, enough is enough, for people to get engaged in the political process, to finally demand that Washington represent all of us, not just a handful of very wealthy people.     That's the way you bring about real change.          
  Give me a shot here, Alexis.          ALEXIS KULASH, 
  No, no, no.  That's not quite accurate.  I have a 100 percent pro-choice voting record.  In every speech that I give, what I say is not only do we stop the Republican efforts to try to defund Planned Parenthood, we should expand funding for Planned Parenthood.          
  Now what I said, what I said on a television program, and I did not say it well, is that sometimes the base of an organization looks at the world a little bit differently than the leadership.     So if you have 100 percent Planned Parenthood voting record, 100 percent pro-choice voting record, there are people who are asking, why is the leadership not either supporting Bernie Sanders or why are they, you know, opposing him?     And my point is that I will fight - these are great organizations.  I met with Planned Parenthood.  They do a fantastic job not only in defending women's rights in general, but talking about sexuality in America.     They are a fantastic organization.  Count me in as somebody who strongly supports them.     So this was simply a question of endorsement policy, not whether or not I strongly support these organizations.  Do I have your vote yet?     
  I know.  I'm just kidding, but that is the difference.  I support the organization.     
  And of course, I understand that.     But I think if you look at my record in terms of fighting for women's rights, I think there are very few members of Congress who have a stronger record.  It's 100 percent lifetime, and I've been there for a while.     In addition to that, you know, there have - as you know, women are making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.  That is nothing but old-fashioned sexism, and I am a strong advocate and will fight for pay equity for women.     I believe that - and it's not only women, although it impacts women and women of color even greater, this level of pay inequality, inequity, is extraordinary.  So we're going to fight for pay equity, make sure that everybody earns the same amount for the same work.     Also, what we have got to do is people cannot make it on 8, 9, 10 bucks an hour.  We have got to raise the minimum wage in this country to a living wage.  That will impact all people.  It will impact women more than men as we raise the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour.          
  Well, one more point, one more point, Chris.  I'm trying to win her vote.  Leave me alone here.          
  All right.  Hillary Clinton and I have a disagreement on a very important issue that impacts everybody, but especially women.  I believe that we should expand Social Security benefits by lifting the cap on taxable income.     That will help millions of low-income seniors, especially women.  Ask Hillary Clinton if she's prepared to lift the cap on taxable income.          
  Thank you very much.          
  No, this calls for a standing up response.     
  That's all.          
  All right, let me shock everybody here.  This is true.  I've known Hillary Clinton for 25 years.     You know what?     I like Hillary Clinton and I respect Hillary Clinton.  And Hillary Clinton has devoted her life to public service and I have tried, as I hope you all know, not to run a negative campaign, not to be attacking every other day, to keep this discussion on a high level, where we debate the issues facing this country.          
  And by the way, with a few exceptions, we're doing a lot better than the Republicans in that regard.          
  But on the other hand, that's not a very high bar to reach, so...          
  - all right.     But what is - what is this?     All right, what do I think?     Let me just give you a couple of examples.     The truth is that the most significant vote and issue regarding foreign policy that we have seen in this country in modern history was the vote on the war in Iraq.  OK, that's the fact.     I voted against the war in Iraq and if you go to my Web site, listen to the speech that I gave when I was in the House in 2002, saying, yes, it's easy to get rid of a dictator like Saddam Hussein, but there's going to be a political vacuum, there will be instability.     And it gives me no pleasure to tell that much of what I feared, in fact, happened.     Hillary Clinton voted for the war in Iraq.     All right, in terms of Wall Street, I fought against deregulation, led the opposition to doing away with the Glass-Steagall legislation.  Unfortunately, my side lost.  Wall Street became deregulated.  The rest is history.     Wall Street has operated, in a very significant way in a fraudulent way, and obviously their greed and recklessness helped destroy our economy and create the worst recession since the Great Depression.     I led the effort against Wall Street deregulation.  See where Hillary Clinton was on this issue.     In terms of climate change, which everybody here knows - and apparently everybody in the world knows except Republican candidates for president, is one of the great environmental crises facing this nation.     On day one, I said the Keystone Pipeline is a dumb idea.          
  OK.  I think the Bakken Pipeline and pipelines in Vermont and New Hampshire are dumb.  I think we've got to break our dependence on fossil fuel.     Why did it take...          
  Why did it take Hillary Clinton such a long time before she came into opposition to the Keystone Pipeline?     Trade policy - I have understood from day one that our trade policies have cost us - NAFTA, CAFTA, PNTR with China, millions of decent-paying jobs.  I didn't have to think hard about opposing the Transpacific Partnership.          
  It took Hillary Clinton a long time to come on board that.     
  In other words, yes, I do think I have the background and the judgment to take this very, very difficult job of being president of the United States.     
  Yes.     
  Right.     
  Look...     
  - my - my only point was, look, Secretary Clinton was secretary of State of this country for four years.  That is a lot of experience.  There's no debate about that.  I was not secretary of State.     But, experience is important, but judgement is also important. And, my own point was in talking Dick Cheney, he had a lot of experience too. His policies with regard to foreign affairs was an absolute disaster. So, experience is important, but it is not the only thing. And, I would urge people to check out my views on foreign policy, how we deal with ISIS, and I think they will make a lot of sense to the people of Iowa, and the people of our country.     
 Good. Excellent questions. Now, I have been attacked - in fact, this is an issue that Hillary Clinton has focused on, and that's politics. And that's fine.     Although, some of you might recall that back in 2007, when she was running against Barack Obama, she also focused on that issue. But she thought that Obama was too strong on gun issues. You may remember him referring to her as "Annie Oakley", alright?     Today, Hillary Clinton's running a lot of advertisements on gun issues. Interestingly enough, she's running most of them in New Hampshire where she thinks it'll work, not running so many of them in rural Iowa. Well, you can form your own judgement as to why that is the case.     To answer your question, in 1988 I ran Vermont's lone seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. I ran as an Independent against a Democrat and a Republican. The gun lobby said vote for either the Democrat or the Republican, don't vote for Bernie Sanders. This is 1988. Because Bernie thinks that we should not be selling military style assault weapons in the United States of America. Back in 1988. I lost that election by three percentage points. I cannot tell you that that was the only reason, but I had the gun groups working against me back then.     Since then, I have supported instant background checks, the expansion of instant background checks because I believe our job, if we're going to end these horrific mass murders, or at least have some impact in lessening the occurrence of them, we have got to do our best to make sure that guns do not get into the hands of people who should not have them. Criminals, people with mental instability.     I believe as President Obama does that we got to deal with this gun show loophole, and that's what he's working on now with his executive order. People should not be able to circumvent the instant background check through the gun show, or through the Internet.     I believe that we should make a federal crime of the so-called, "Strawman Situation", where people are buying guns legally, going through the instant background check, and then selling them to criminals.     
 ... Here is the issue...     
 I voted for the bill, and the reason I voted for the bill is you got a bill which has a number of elements in it, among other things it has a section which says we should not be selling ammunition which will pierce policemans armor and protection. I think that's a right thing.     It had a section in it which said that we want to have safety locks for children on guns. That makes sense to me.     It also had a provision in it which says the following - and people may disagree with me, this is my view. Is that if you are a small gun shop in Vermont, and I legally sell you a weapon, OK? You go out, buy that gun legally, and then you go out and kill somebody. I think the gun shop owner should not be held liable to your criminal act. That's what I believe.     Now, within that bill also there was some onerous provision. Not good provisions. What happens if a gun manufacturer is selling a whole lot of guns into an area, far more guns than that area can consume? And, what happens if that gun owner - that gun manufacturer should know that those guns are going into criminal hands. Should that gun manufacturer be held liable? Yes, he should.     So, I am willing now to look at that legislation, maintain what was good in it, get rid of what is bad in it.     
  I don't think so, Chris.  If you sell, if you are a small gun shop owner and you sell somebody a gun, legally, all right, you don't do anything wrong.  That's what you do.  You sell guns.     Somebody buys the gun and then goes out and kills somebody, do I think that gun shop owner should be held liable?  I don't.     
  No, but the point is - ah, but here's the point.  If a gun shop owner should know, why should somebody be buying 1,000 guns?  Somebody should be thinking that does not make a lot of sense.  In that case, that gun shop owner or the gun manufacturer should be held liable, OK?     And that's the issue that I want to - now you're asking me also about mental health.  When I talk about health care for all, I absolutely include in that the fact that mental health should be treated as part of health care, should be available to all people.          
  I get calls - I have gotten calls in my office, and I'm sure other senators have as well.  This is the call.  Somebody calls us up and said, I'm very worried about my brother.  I'm worried what he might do to himself or, to answer your question, to somebody else.  He may be homicidal.  He may be suicidal.     We have searched desperately to find health care - mental health treatment for him.  We cannot find mental health treatment which is affordable, which is accessible.     In my view, we have got to move in the direction of making sure that everybody in this country who has a mental health crisis gets health care when they need it, not two months from today.     
  Thank you.     
  If you followed me around today, you'd be a lot more tired.          
  Excuse me?     
  Yes.     
  You know families exaggerate a little bit.  I was a very good athlete.  I wouldn't say I was a great athlete.  I was a pretty good basketball player.  My elementary school in Brooklyn won the borough championship.               
  Hardly worth mentioning, but we did, yes.  And, yes, I did take third place in the New York City indoor one mile race.  OK, well, you know, I would - I was a very good long-distance runner.  I would say not a great runner, but I was captain of my track team and won a number of cross-country meets and certainly won a whole lot of races.     So good, very good, not great.     
  Seventy-four!               
  I'm going on 75.  So are you!  You're going to be 75 some day.          
  Absolutely.  They're sitting - where are they, Jane?  They're on our table right now?  All right.  We will release them.     That's my wife.  Yes, of course, we'll release them.     
  Yes, sure.     And, you know, I am - you know, if there's wood here, I would knock on it.     
  I have been blessed with good health and good endurance.  And there's nothing in the medical records that is going to surprise anybody.  And we will get them out as soon as possible.     
  That they wouldn't believe it.  I mean, we grew up - my dad came from Poland at the age of 17 without a nickel in his pocket, couldn't speak English and he never made a whole lot of money.     And my brother and I and mom and dad grew up in a three-and-a-half-room rent-controlled apartment in Brooklyn, New York.  And we never had a whole lot of money.     And if you ask me, you know, Chris, this would be so unimaginable the fact that I'm a United States senator would've been beyond really anything that they would have thought possible.  The fact that I am running for president of the United States, you know I do think about it and you know think they're very proud.  But it's certainly something that I don't think they ever believed would've happened.     
  Look, Hillary Clinton is a very good person.  Martin O'Malley is a very decent guy.  So I'm not - you know, this is not a - personal stuff.     It just seems to me that the crises that we face as a country today, and we didn't even get into climate change to a significant degree: inequality, poverty in America, an obscene and unfair campaign finance system.  These problems are so serious that we have got to go beyond establishment politics and establishment economics.     In my view we need a political revolution where millions of people stand up and say you know what, that great government of ours belongs to all of us, not just the few.  That's why I'm running for president.  Thank you.          
  I'm Bernie Sanders, and I approve this message.          
