Speaker:Bernie Sanders
Date: 20160207
Category: Interview
Occasion: Face the Nation on CBS with John Dickerson
Source: http://www.cbsnews.com/news/face-the-nation-transcripts-february-7-2016-hillary-clinton-bernie-sanders/
 Well, that's what she said about Barack Obama in 2008. And it turned out not to be true. I am impressed by the quality of his foreign policy.  Furthermore, on the most important foreign policy issue in modern history, the war in Iraq, I voted against the war. I led the opposition against the war. And if you to go my Web site, BernieSanders.com, you will see that much of what I feared would happen in fact did happen.  On the other hand, Secretary Clinton voted for the war. So, I think it is not just experience. Obviously, she's been a secretary of state for four years. But it is judgment as well. And I am confident that I can put together a strong team to provide great foreign policy for the people of the United States.  
 Well, John -- John, I think that's a media narrative that goes around and around and around. I don't accept that media narrative.  Again, on the most important issue of our time, I was right, Hillary Clinton was wrong. This is the same argument made against Barack Obama in 2008. I will assemble a top-notch foreign policy team and we will provide excellent and strong foreign policy for the people of the United States.  What I believe right now is that we have got to learn the lessons of Iraq. And that is that the United States of America cannot do it alone. We have to work in coalition. We have to work in coalition with major countries and with Muslim countries whose troops will be on the ground.  My main concern in terms of the Mideast is to make certain that the United States does not get involved in perpetual warfare in the quagmire of Iraq and Syria and Afghanistan.  
 It's a fact. When in the last reporting period her super PAC received $25 million and $15 million came from Wall Street, what is the smear? That is the fact.  
 Yes, I know. Nobody who takes -- or has a super PAC, nobody who gets money, whether it's Republican or Democrat, from the pharmaceutical industry, from the fossil fuel industry, from Wall Street, there's never been a politician in history who said, that money influences me.  It's just people are throwing millions ever dollars into the campaign, but there's no reason why they're throwing that money into the campaign. I think, you know, the American people know better. So, I have never impugned a Secretary Clinton's integrity. I like Secretary Clinton. But we have a corrupt campaign finance system.  I am proud I do not have a super PAC. We have raised 3.5 million individual contributions averaging $27 apiece.  
 It is a corrupt -- it is a corrupt campaign finance system. And let me tell you something, John. At the very top of my list of goals that I want to accomplish as president of the United States is overturning this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision.  Democracy does not mean that billionaires should be able to buy elections.  
 Is that what the Clinton people are talking about?  
 Yes, well, CNN is wrong.  
 I went to events. But did I go and ask financial people for money? Absolutely not.  What I did do, because I absolutely did not want to see the Republicans gain control of the United States Senate, I wrote letters to a whole lot of people, letters that went out to I'm guessing millions of people through Democratic Senate Committee that raised millions of dollars for the Democratic Senate Committee.  On one hand, John, I'm criticized because I'm not a strong enough Democrat, and then I'm criticized because I'm raising money for the Democratic Senate Committee in order to make sure that they retain -- regain control of the Senate.  But, no, I do not go and raise money for the financial institutions.  
 John, the people I am writing to are contributing $25, $30, $40. And if anybody doesn't know the difference between a contribution of $30 or $40 or a super PAC which raises millions of dollars from Wall Street, then, frankly, we don't know what is going on in politics today.  My letter that I sent out to millions of people was designed to bring in low donations, low-dollar donations, very, very different from appealing to Wall Street or big money interests.  
 Well, a lot of people think -- that's ultimately her decision. Her point is that she's given these speeches. But my understanding now is, her campaign says she's not going to release those transcripts. That's her decision.  But I think it would be a positive thing for the American people to know what was said behind closed doors to Wall Street. But, ultimately, that is her decision.  
 Thank you, John.  
