Speaker:Bernie Sanders
Date: 20160306
Category: Debate
Occasion: 7th Democratic Party Candidates Debate in Flint, MI
Source: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/03/06/the-democrats-debate-in-flint-mich-annotated/
 Anderson, thank you very much.  Over the last several weeks I had the opportunity to meet with a number of residents of Flint at a town meeting in Flint, and I have to tell you what I heard, and what I saw literally shattered me. And, it was beyond belief that children in Flint, Michigan in the United States of America in the year 2016 are being poisoned.   That is clearly not what this country should be about.  As Anderson indicated, there's a lot of blame to go around, and one of the points that I have made is that I believe the Governor of this state should understand that his dereliction of duty was irresponsible. He should resign.    
 But more importantly, what is happening in Flint to a lesser degree is happening throughout this country. In recent years we have seen a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires, and increase in income and wealth inequality, and all over this country middle class families are struggling. Cities and towns are struggling, in order to provide basic services. Among many other things, we need to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, our water systems, our waste water plants, our roads and our bridges. The wealthiest country in the history of the world has got to get its priorities right, take care of the people, no more tax breaks for billionaires.  
 What is going is a disgrace beyond belief. As the president of the United States, this is what I would do is if local government does not have the resources -- if state government for whatever reason America shouldn't be poisoned, federal government comes in, federal government acts.    What is absolute incredible to me is that water rates have soared in Flint. You are paying three times more for poison water than I am paying in Burlington, Vermont for clean water.  First thing is you say, people are not paying a water bill for poison and that is retroactive.    Second of all, to ease anxiety, CDC has to come in and examine every child and adult in this community in terms of the amount of lead they may have. Thirdly, the wealthiest country has to rebuild the crumbling infrastructure, our water systems. I have a bill for a trillion dollars, it creates 13 million jobs rebuilding flint, Michigan and communities all over the country.  Click here for more information! 
 That's a good point, Anderson.  Listen, I suppose they can trust the corporations who have destroyed Flint by a disastrous trade policy which have allowed them to shut down plants in flint and move to China or Mexico. We could trust them I'm sure.    
 Or maybe -- you know, maybe, Anderson, tell you what -- we should -- maybe we should let Wall Street come in and run the city of Flint...    ... because we know their honesty and integrity has done so much for the American people. Look, we live in a democracy, and I'm not in  the last person to deny that government is failing in many respects.  But at the end of the day, I will trust the people to create a government that works for them, rather than Wall Street or corporate America.    
 President Sanders would fire anybody who knew about what was happening and did not act appropriately.    And President Sanders would make the point that, how does it happen, in the wealthiest country in the history of the world? What are our priorities when, among others, Republicans today are fighting for hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks for the wealthiest people?  How did we have so much money available to go to war in Iraq and spend trillions of dollars...    ... but somehow not have enough money -- not just for Flint, the secretary is right. There are communities all over this country -- it's not just infrastructure, it is education. Detroit's public school system is collapsing.    
 Anderson, the bottom line is, and what my campaign is, is changing our national priorities. We need a government that works for all of us...  
 ... not just wealthy campaign contributors.  
 I will make a personal promise to you that the EPA and the EPA director that I appoint will make sure that every water system in the United States of America is tested, and that the people of those communities know the quality of the water that they are drinking, and that we are gonna have a plan to rebuild water systems in this country that are unsafe for drinking.  
 Well, I agree, you know? We can't sit up here -- I can't sit up here and make judgment over whether or not somebody committed a criminal act. But, I will tell you this that after an investigation, if people, in fact, were found to have committed a criminal act -- I talked to a mother.  Imagine this for a second, imagine a mother who had a bright seven-year-old gregarious girl doing well in school. Two years later, that child is now in special education, intellectual capabilities significantly deteriorated. That is a crime against that child, and the people of Flint. And, clearly, people are going to have to be held accountable.    
 Well, first of all, that's not quite accurate. I was here long before that. I will you what I did. What I did was meet very quietly in Detroit with parents and others who were impacted by this disaster.  And the second thing I did is hold a town meeting, which was as nonpolitical as I could make it for hundreds of people to tell me and the world through the media exactly what was happening here in Flint. I think the fear and the legitimate fear of the people of Flint is that a certain point the TV cameras and CNN will disappear.    And people are going to be left struggling in order to live in a safe and healthy community. All I can say is if you check my record going back a long time, I have stood with those who are hurting. I have stood with those who have no money, and I have taken on virtually every powerful special interest in the United States of America. That's my record and I'm proud of it.  
 I am very glad, Anderson, that secretary Clinton discovered religion on this issue but it's a little bit too late.  Secretary Clinton supported virtually every one of the disastrous trade agreements written by corporate America.    NAFTA, supported by the Secretary cost, us 800,000 jobs nationwide, tens of thousands of jobs in the Midwest. Permanent normal trade relations with China cost us millions of jobs. Look, I was on a picket line in early 1990's against NFATA because you didn't need a PhD in economics to understand that American workers should not be forced to compete against people in Mexico making 25 cents an hour.    
 And the reason that I was one of the first, not one of the last to be in opposition to the TPP is that American workers...    ... should not be forced to compete against people in Vietnam today making a minimum wage of $0.65 an hour. Look, what we have got to do is tell corporate America that they cannot continue to shut down. We've lost 60,000 factories since 2001. They're going to start having to, if I'm president, invest in this country -- not in China, not in Mexico.  
 Well, I -- If you are talking about the Wall Street bailout, where some of your friends destroyed this economy...  
 ... through -- excuse me, I'm talking.  
 Let me tell my story. You tell yours.  
 Your story is for -- voting for every disastrous trade agreement, and voting for corporate America. Did I vote against the Wall Street bailout?  When billionaires on Wall Street destroyed this economy, they went to Congress and they said, "please, we'll be good boys, bail us out." You know what I said? I said, "let the billionaires themselves bail out Wall Street." It shouldn't be the middle class of this country.    
 Wait a minute. Wait. Could I finish? You'll have your turn, all right?  But ultimately, if you look at our records, I stood up to corporate America time and time again. I went to Mexico. I saw the lives of people who were working in American factories and making $0.25 an hour.  I understood that these trade agreements were going to destroy the middle class of this country. I led the fight against us . That is one of the major differences that we have.  
 I believe that the recklessness, the greed, and the illegal behavior of Wall Street drove this country into the worst economic downturn in the history of the United -- modern history of the United States of America. And I will be damned if it was the working people of this country who had to bail out the crooks on Wall Street.    And what I proposed -- and I had an amendment that was defeated -- it was defeated by a voice vote on the floor of the Senate -- that said to those people on the top who benefited from Wall Street greed -- I said, "you pay for the bailout. Don't go to my constituents, who are struggling to make ends meet."  In terms of the auto bailout, of course that made sense. In terms of the stimulus package, of course that made sense, and I strongly supported President Obama's position on that.  
 But let us be clear, one of the major issues Secretary Clinton says I'm a one-issue person, well, I guess so. My one issue is trying to rebuild a disappearing middle class. That's my one issue.    
 Let me just say this, while we are on Wall Street, one of us has a super PAC. One of us has raised $15 million from Wall Street for that super PAC. One of us has given speeches on Wall Street for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Now, I kind of think if you get paid a couple hundred thousand dollars for a speech, it must be a great speech. I think we should release it and let the American people see what that transcript was.    
 All right, look, Secretary Clinton wants everybody else to release it, well, I'm your Democratic opponent, I release it, here it is. There ain't nothing. I don't give speeches to Wall Street for hundreds of thousands of dollars, you got it.  Second of all, when we talk about being tough on Wall Street, and this galls me and the American people. Recently Goldman Sachs, among many other major financial institutions on Wall Street, as you know, reached a settlement with the federal government for $5 billion because they were selling worthless packages of subprime mortgages, $5 billion settlement.  You know how many people, executives on Wall Street have gone to jail? If you are a kid caught with marijuana in Michigan, you get a police record. If you are an executive on Wall Street that destroys the American economy, you pay a $5 billion fine, no police record.  If I am elected president, we are going to bring justice back to a broken criminal justice system.    
 Well, I'm blaming the trade policies. You know what? This is an amazing thing which I didn't know until recently, and I wonder how many people did know this.  
 Well, Hillary Clinton, and everybody else who supported these disastrous trade policies. She wasn't alone. We have many, many Republicans and far too many Democrats who supported these disastrous trade policies.  Do you know...    
 ... Do you know that in 1960 Detroit Michigan was one of the wealthiest cities in America? Flint, Michigan was a prosperous city, but then what happened is corporate America said why do I want to pay somebody in Michigan a living wage when I can pay slave wages in Mexico or China? We're going to shut down, we're going to move abroad, we're going to bring those products back into this country.  Those trade policies, as much as any other set of policies, has resulted in the shrinking of the American middle class. And, I'll tell you what else it did. It's not only job loss by the millions, it is the race to the bottom so that new jobs in manufacturing, in some cases today, pay 50 percent less than they did 20 years ago. How stupid is that trade policy?    
 ... I'll tell you what I say...  
 ... I'll tell you what I say. Do you know what the other name of the Export-Import Bank is? What it's called in Washington? It's called the bank of Boeing because Boeing itself gets 40 percent of the money discharged by the Export-Import Bank.  Seventy-Five percent of the funds going from the federal government, the Export-Import Bank, goes to large, profitable corporations. Many of these corporations have shut down in America, and have gone abroad to exploit poor people.  You know what? I don't think it's a great idea for the American taxpayer to have to subsidize through corporate welfare profitable corporations who downsize in the United States of America.  
 ... Seventy-Five percent of that money goes to large profitable corporations.  
 Well, let me tell you, I don't want to break the bad news.    
 Democrats are not always right. Democrats have often supported corporate welfare...    
 Democrats have supported disastrous trade agreements, but on this issue I do not believe in corporate welfare, and in fact, secretary Clinton may know or not know, but as a member of the Financial Services Committee, I worked hard and successfully to make sure that at least 20 percent of the money went to small businesses which is where it should go and not to profitable corporations and downsizing in our country.  
 Isn't it tragic that the large multinational corporations making billions of dollars a year, shutting down in America, going to China, going to Mexico? Absolutely they need a handout from the American middle class -- I don't think so.  Second of all.    Second of all, secretary Clinton traveled the world, she has been to Europe. And let's talk about Europe versus the United States. I'm sure that when you were in Europe, and France, and Germany and the U.K., and all of the other countries; you noticed something and that is every one of those countries guarantees health care to all of their people as a right.    And I am sure you know as you know you do that in countries like the U.K. compared to America, we are spending almost three times as much as they spend in the U.K. for health care for our people. We are spending 50 percent more than the French. When we talk about Europe and their pluses and minuses, one thing they have done well that we should emulate and that is guaranteed health care for all people for a better care for all.  
 I remember President Obama being on television maybe three months ago. Showed the secretary members as well. She knows the president, I know the president. And he is generally speaking in public and he's not a very emotional guy. And he -- after the mass killing in Oregon if my memory is correct, he said look. There -- to be honest with you, let's be honest. Nobody has a magic solution to this problem.  Any lunatic tomorrow, any person can walk into a theater and do something horrific. And you know what? For us to tell you that that absolutely will not happen would be untrue. But what the president said, he said look, this is a tough issue. But we have got to do everything we possibly can to minimize the possibility of these mass killings.  You are looking at a guy who comes from a rural state with no gun control. I have a D minus voting record from the NRA. You are looking at a guy who in 1988 lost a statewide election for Congress because I was the only candidate who said you know what, I don't think it's a great idea in this country to be selling military-style assault weapons which are designed to kill people.    
 I lost that election by three votes. I agree with what the secretary said. We need to expand and improve the instant background checks. Bottom line is people who should not have guns in America should not be able to buy guns in America.  
 Absolutely, I agree. Look, that bill had some sensible provisions in it. It had the banning of bullets that pierce policemen's armor. Is that a good thing? I think we would want to get rid of that. particular legislation had safety locks on guns so the kids do not pick them up and shoot them. That bill had bad things in it. What I have said...  
 Absolutely. That was a very arbitrary decision. What that real debate was about, as you may or may not know, was about how long it would take for the instant background check to go into effect. I wanted that instant background check to go into effect as soon as possible. That was the most important part of that bill.  
 Well, this is what I say, if I understand it -- and correct me if I'm wrong. If you go to a gun store and you legally purchase a gun, and then, three days later, if you go out and start killing people, is the point of this lawsuit to hold the gun shop owner or the manufacturer of that gun liable?  If that is the point, I have to tell you I disagree. I disagree because you hold people -- in terms of this liability thing, where you hold manufacturers' liability is if they understand that they're selling guns into an area that -- it's getting into the hands of criminals, of course they should be held liable.  But if they are selling a product to a person who buys it legally, what you're really talking about is ending gun manufacturing in America. I don't agree with that.  
 So let's say this. Let's say this.  
 If I understand -- and -- you know, as I understand it, what you're really talking about is not what Secretary Clinton is responding to.  As I understand it -- and maybe I'm wrong on this, but what you were essentially saying, and what people are saying, is that, if somebody who is crazy or a criminal or a horrible person goes around shooting people, the manufacturer of that gun should be held liable.  And if that is your position, then what you are saying, essentially -- if that is the case, as I understand it -- it's not what Secretary Clinton is talking about. I agree with what she said.  But if that is the case, then essentially, your position is there should not be any guns in America, period.    
 Can I -- can I finish, please? All right?  And you can -- there are people who hold that view. And that's fine, if you hold it. I think what you do is you hold those people who have used the gun accountable. You try to make...  
 ... guns as safe as possible, but I would disagree on that.  
 Hold...  
 Hold it.  
 You know, I think it is a little bit -- it is a little bit -- look, what happened at Sandy Hook, what happened in Michigan, what has happened far too often all over this country is a terrible, terrible tragedy, and we have got to do everything we can, as I mentioned a moment ago, to end these mass killings.  But, as I understand what your question is -- and, you're not the only person whose heart was broken. I know, I was there in the Senate when we learned about this killing. It is almost unspeakable to talk about some lunatic walking into a -- I mean; it is hard to even talk about it.  We all feel that way. But it, as I understand it, Anderson, and maybe I'm wrong, what you're really talking about is people saying let's end gun manufacturing in America. That's the implications of that, and I don't agree with that.  
 Probably will.  
 You know, as I think Secretary Clinton knows, as we all know, there are bills in congress that have bad stuff, there are bills in congress that have good stuff. Good stuff and bad stuff in the same bill.  Now, if I have voted against that bill, Secretary Clinton would be here tonight and she'd say, "Bernie Sanders voted against the ban on assault weapons. Bernie Sanders voted against the violence against women act." Those were provisions in the bill, as the Secretary just indicated. So, in that bill there was some good provisions, I have been a fierce fighter against domestic violence ever since I was mayor in Burlington.  Violence against women act has protected millions of women in this country, it was in that bill. The ban on assault weapons, that's what I have fought for my whole life. It was in that bill.  Now, what you are reading though is I went to the floor, as I recall, and that's what I said. I tried to get the death penalty aspects in that bill out. Secretary Clinton have a disagreement. I was then, and I am now opposed to the death penalty.    
 So, to answer your question, what you read was a congressman who was torn, who said there are good things in that bill, there are bad things overall. I voted for it.  But where we are right now is having more than 2.2 million people in jail -- more than any other country on earth. This is a campaign promise, at the end of my first term, we will not have more people in jail than any other country.  
 You are not talking about me, are you?    
 Well, I think the best answer -- I don't know that I can give you a definitive answer here, but I will give you this answer. When I was a young man at the University of Chicago, I worked with fellow black and white students trying to desegregate the University of Chicago owned housing. Most candidates for president, don't put this on their resume, but I was arrested by the Chicago police for trying to desegregate the Chicago school system.    In 1963, and an important day for me, I went to the march on Washington led by Dr. King for jobs and freedom. Dr. King has been an important inspiration for me. In this campaign, if you go to berniesanders.com and read our position on criminal justice, it is I believe the strongest position of any candidate. What it says among other things, 51 percent of African-American kids today are unemployed -- you know we're going to do? We're going to provide education and jobs for those kids, not jails or incarceration.  
 Well, let me just very briefly tell you a story. When I was in one of my first years in Congress, I went to a meeting downtown in Washington, D.C. And I went there with another congressman, an African-American congressman. And then we kind of separated during the meeting. And then I saw him out later on. And he was sitting there waiting and I said, well, let's go out and get a cab. How come you didn't go out and get a cab?  He said, no, I don't get cabs in Washington, D.C. This was 20 years ago. Because he was humiliated by the fact that cabdrivers would go past him because he was black. I couldn't believe, you know, you just sit there and you say, this man did not take a cab 20 years ago in Washington, D.C. Tell you another story, I was with young people active in the Black Lives Matter movement. A young lady comes up to me and she says, you don't understand what police do in certain black communities. You don't understand the degree to which we are terrorized, and I'm not just talking about the horrible shootings that we have seen, which have got to end and we've got to hold police officers accountable, I'm just talking about every day activities where police officers are bullying people.  So to answer your question, I would say, and I think it's similar to what the secretary said, when you're white, you don't know what it's like to be living in a ghetto. You don't know what it's like to be poor. You don't know what it's like to be hassled when you walk down the street or you get dragged out of a car.  And I believe that as a nation in the year 2016, we must be firm in making it clear. We will end institutional racism and reform a broken criminal justice system.    
 It's not a question of being better than President Obama, it is a question of building on the work that President Obama has done, the very important work.    
 No, well, he has given us a good, good basis and foundation. We have got to do better than that. And of course we should.  But here's what I would do. I would end -- I would make sure that the Department of Justice investigated every killing of a citizen of this country when they are under apprehension from a police officer or when they are killed in police custody.  I would end the militarization of local police departments.    
 I would develop model programs to make police departments look like the communities that they serve. I would end minimal sentencing and give judges more discretion. I would recognize that substance abuse and drug addiction is a health issue, not a criminal issue.    
 And I would make sure that those people who left jail had the education and job training so they don't go back into the same environment which got them in jail in the first place.    
 But can I respond to that briefly?  
 Just in this. I am not sure which legislation that was. But I think it may have been the Welfare Reform, so-called...  
 Oh, it was the crime bill.  
 But during that same period, '96. There was a bill called -- so-called, it had a long title to it, Welfare Reform Bill. And this bill really was a bill that scapegoated the poorest people in this country. I strongly opposed that legislation. Secretary Clinton had a different position then.  And what that legislation ended up doing is increasing extreme poverty, the poorest people in this country have become much poorer as a result of that -- really a bill that was written by Republicans. Bad bill.  
 Secretary Clinton is right. In the 1990s, we created a whole lot of jobs. Good. And I supported many of your husband's initiatives. But in the 1990s, you know what we also did? We deregulated Wall Street, which allowed Wall Street to end up destroying our economy.    We passed NAFTA and other disastrous trade agreements which had a horrendous impact on African-Americans in particular, in Flint, in Detroit and all across this country. So when we talk about the '90s, you're right. A lot of good things happened, but a lot of bad things happened.  
 I voted against those trade agreements.  
 And I voted against Wall Street deregulation.  
 Well, thank you very much for not being resigned to that horrendous situation, but being prepared to stand up and fight back...  
 ... That's what we need all over this country.  And, let me be very honest with you, hard thing to say, but it is true. A great nation is judged not by how many millionaires and billionaires it has, but by how it treats the most vulnerable amongst us, and that is the children, and that is the elderly. And, do you know what?  We should be ashamed of how we treat our kids and our senior citizens.  
 We have a Republican leadership in congress now fighting for hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks for the top two-tenths of one percent, but somehow we can't come up with the money to fix Detroit's crumbling public school system. Somehow we cannot make sure that Detroit has qualified, and good teachers.  Somehow we can't make sure that there are summer programs for your children, and after school programs for your children. Somehow we cannot do what other countries around the world, is provide quality childcare and pre-K. We have got to change our national priorities, no more tax breaks for billionaires, and large corporations.  We are going to invest in our children, and have the best public school system in the world.  
 ... Anderson, not only do we have a crumbling school system in Detroit, and in many other areas, we have -- and everybody in this room should be embarrassed by this, we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth. That is a disgrace.    
 So, when you ask me about my priorities, my priorities are that no, we're not going to give tax breaks to the wealthy. We're going to ask them to start paying their fair share of taxes so we can raise the money to make sure that every child in this country, in Detroit, in Vermont, gets the quality education that he or she deserves.    
 What our campaign is about, is asking people to think big not small. And when we think big and we talk about education, we've got to ask ourselves a simple question, how is it -- starting at college that hundreds of thousands of bright young people are today, unable to go to college because they can't afford it? How is it that maybe your kid -- and when I was growing up, we didn't have any money -- we're not even dreaming about going to college because they knew it was another world.  So starting with the top, now I know some people think it's a radical idea, I don't. I believe that every public college and university in this country should be tuition free.    So that your child regardless of the income of your family knows that if she's studies hard, she is going to be able to go to college. And you know what else we do? We invest in child care. Right now, you've got child-care workers making McDonald's wages, that is crazy.  
 I want well trained, well paid, child care workers to give our youngest kids advance opportunities.  
 Well, let's begin by discussing the problem. As you've indicated, the American Society of Civil Engineers say we need trillions of dollars -- trillions of dollars -- just to bring up our infrastructure to deal with -- water systems like Flint, just to bring them up to decent levels.  We have suggested a trillion-dollar investment. Now, you know how we're gonna pay for that? I'll tell you how we're gonna pay for that. Right now, this country is losing $100 billion every single year because profitable corporations are stashing their profits in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and in other tax havens...    ... and in some cases, not paying five cents in federal income tax. I will eliminate that outrageous loophole, and we will raise $1 trillion. And by the way, not only do we rebuild our crumbling infrastructure -- $1 trillion over five years creates 13 million decent-paying jobs.  
 My answer -- my answer is a lot shorter. No, I do not support fracking.    And by the way -- by the way, Anderson, I'm glad you raised the issue of climate change, because the media doesn't talk enough about what the scientists are telling us, and that is, if we don't get our act together...    ... the planet that we're gonna leave our children may not be healthy and habitable. I have introduced the most comprehensive climate change legislation in the history of the Senate, which, among other things, calls for a tax on carbon, massive investments...    ... in energy efficiency, wind, solar and other sustainable energy.  
 This is a crisis we have got to deal with now.  
 Yes.    You know -- you know, one of the differences -- look, Secretary Clinton -- and I've said this before, and I admit it -- she has the support of all the governors -- Democratic -- all the Senators, all the Congressmen. I don't. I am not part of that establishment. I plead guilty.    I happen to be a member of the Environmental Committee. I have talked to scientists all over the world. And what they are telling me -- if we don't get our act together, this planet could be 5 to 10 degrees warmer by the end of this century -- cataclysmic problems for this planet.  This is a national crisis. And I talk to scientists who tell me that fracking is doing terrible things to water systems all over this country. We have gotta be bold now. We gotta transform our energy system to energy efficiency and sustainable energy. We've gotta do it yesterday.  
 No, what I am suggesting is that we have a corrupt campaign finance system. And instead of standing up to that finance system...    
 And instead of standing up to that finance system, Secretary Clinton has super PAC, which is raising huge amounts -- well, I hate to say the word "huge," every time I say huge it...    
 A lot of money from Wall Street and from the fossil fuel industry. I am doing it a different way. I have 5 million individual contributors who have gone to BernieSanders.com to make a $27 contribution. I don't take money from the fossil fuel industry.    
 Well, let me make a couple of responses. Let me pick up on the last point the secretary made. You know, we are, if elected president, going to invest a lot of money into mental health. And when you watch these Republican debates, you know why we need to invest in that.      
 But here's the difference. Here is the difference. It's not a personal difference. We just do things differently. All right. I honestly -- look, we have a corrupt campaign finance system. And what Secretary Clinton is saying and what every candidate who receives from the fossil fuel industry or the drug companies or Wall Street say, not going to impact me.  The question the American people have to ask is, why are these people putting millions of dollars into candidates if it's not going to make a difference?    
 And that is why, by the way, that is why one of my top priorities, if elected president will be to overturn this outrageous Citizens United Supreme Court .    
 ... That was one of the nice things that he said about me.    
 I'll tell you something, this is my right arm. I'm prepared to give -- no, I shouldn't say that. I would love to run against Donald Trump, and I'll tell you why.  For a start, but almost -- not all, but almost every poll has shown that Sanders versus Trump does a lot better than Clinton versus Trump.    
 Right here in Michigan there was a poll done, I think yesterday, or today, had me beating Trump in Michigan by 22 points.    
 Secretary Clinton beat him as well, but not by so much. And, that's true nationally, and in many other states. And, the other reason I think we can beat Trump is that our campaign is generating an enormous amount of excitement. Just in the last two days we have won the caucuses in Maine, we won that tonight with a very large turnout.     
 We won Nebraska, we won Kansas, and Kansas was the biggest turnout in their caucus history.  I think we are exciting working class people, young people who are prepared to stand up and demand that we have a government that represents all of us.  
 And not just the few.  
 Well, I think -- well, the answer is yes, and I think when we talk about God whether it is Christianity, or Judaism, or Islam, or Buddhism, what we are talking about is what all religions hold dear. And, that is to do unto others as you would like them to do unto you.    I am here tonight, and I'm running for president. I'm a United States Senator from my great state of Vermont because I believe that, because I believe morally and ethically we do not have a right to turn our backs on children in Flint, Michigan who are being poisoned, or veterans who are sleeping out on the street.    
 What I believe as the father of seven beautiful grandchildren, I want you to worry about my grandchildren, and I promise you I will worry about your family. We are in this together.    
 No. I am very proud to be Jewish, and being Jewish is so much of what I am.  Look, my father's family was wiped out by Hitler in the Holocaust. I know about what crazy and radical, and extremist politics mean. I learned that lesson as a tiny, tiny child when my mother would take me shopping, and we would see people working in stores who had numbers on their arms because they were in Hitler's concentration camp.  I am very proud of being Jewish, and that is an essential part of who I am as a human being.    
 My father came to this country at the age of 17 without any money. Never made any money. We lived in a three and half room rent-controlled apartment. So I learned about economics, not just in college, but in living in a family that didn't have money that had to scrape by. We are here tonight in Flint, Michigan, because a horrendous tragedy is taking place.  But it's not just in Flint, Michigan. We are have 29 million people who have no health insurance. We're the only major country on earth that doesn't provide paid family and medical leave. We have school systems around America that are collapsing. And yet we are the wealthiest country in the history of the world. But most people don't know that because almost all of the new incoming wealth is going to the top one percent.  I believe, and with all due respect to my good friend, Secretary Clinton, that it is too late for establishment politics and establishment economics. It is too late for a corrupt campaign finance system and super-PACs that raise enormous amounts of money from special interests.  We need in this country a political revolution where ordinary people stand up and reclaim the government that men and women fought and died for. Thank you.    
