Speaker: Ted Cruz
Date: 20160131
Category: Interview
Occasion: Meet the Press with Chuck Todd
Source: http://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/meet-press-january-31-2016-n508041
  Chuck, good morning. Good to be with you.  
  Listen, at the end of the day, this race was always going to come down to do conservatives unite? Ten months ago, you and I visited right at the outset. Now, if you had told me ten months ago that the day before the Iowa caucuses, we would be in a statistical tie for first place, I would've been thrilled and astonished and we are thrilled and astonished. And the question is going to come 36 hours from now, do conservatives come together? You know, in past cycle, what Washington has always wanted is to splinter and divide conservatives. If that happens--  
  Oh look, I'm always worried about it. The only way I know how to run, you know, there's the two joke, "There are two ways to run, scared, and unopposed." The only way I know how to run is scared, and we're going to run hard every minute. You know, tomorrow we're going to complete the full Grassley. We will have been to all 99 counties in Iowa. We are campaigning one after the other, asking for the votes of the men and women of Iowa. And really focusing on the grassroots and the ground game.  
  Look, not necessarily.  
  Actually, what I said is he could be.  
  That Iowa, his winning here would give him momentum. No doubt about it. And he's in a strong position in New Hampshire. And the people of Iowa, if they want a strong, principled conservative, the people of Iowa can impact that powerfully 36 hours from now, Monday night at 7:00 p.m. And, you know, I think the stakes are too high to get this wrong.  You know, the most common sentiment you hear from people is they're frustrated with Washington. They're frustrated with politicians. They say one thing and do another. We can't get burned again. And that frustration, the reason that I see conservatives uniting behind our campaign, is they're looking for a consistent conservative. Someone they can trust to be a fiscal conservative, a social conservative, and a national security conservative.  
  Oh listen, anyone who has millions or tens of millions of dollars of attack ads run against them, it's going to have an impact. You know--  
  Oh absolutely.  
  Absolutely.  
  Listen. The fact that they're all shooting at me, six weeks ago, everyone's shooting at Trump. Now all the Republican candidates are shooting at me. That reflects a change in this race. And I'll note, Donald, you're right. And six weeks ago, Donald thought I was terrific, I was his friend, he was singing my praises. Then his poll numbers started dropping, our numbers started surging.  And suddenly, he began blasting me, not on policy, not on substance, but on personal insults and attacks. And Chuck, my approach consistently, both before and after he started doing that, is not to respond in turn. I think the people of Iowa deserve better than insults. And so my focus is policy and substance and record. And who will be a consistent, proven conservative.  
  Listen, we are drawing contrasts. Both Trump and Marco are attacking me. They're attacking me with all their might. And we're drawing contrasts. And the contrasts are clear. And the contrasts, by the way, are substantive and policy based. A vote for Marco Rubio is a vote for amnesty. And a vote for Donald Trump is a vote for ObamaCare.  If you look at their positions, Marco Rubio right now as a presidential candidate, is advocating amnesty. Advocating citizenship for 12 million people here illegally. And Donald Trump, right now as a candidate, is advocating full-on expanding ObamaCare to make it socialized medicine.  Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders have the identical position on healthcare. Which is they want to put the government in charge of you and your doctor. Now my views are polar opposites of both of those. If I'm elected, there will be no amnesty, we will secure the border. And if I'm elected, we will repeal every word of ObamaCare. And so that gives a clear and simple choice for the voters.  
  No, absolutely. And listen, my view on energy, we should pursue all of the above. We ought to be pursuing every energy source.  
  But with no mandates and subsidies. And you know what, the people who are attacking me on this are lobbyists and Democrats. And the reason they're attacking--  
  No, his son is a lobbyist who makes hundreds of thousands of dollars lobbying on ethanol. So his family makes a ton of money. And the lobbyists very much want to keep Iowa focused on the ethanol mandate, because it keeps Iowa dependent on Washington. It means every year, they've got to go back to Washington and maintain the mandate. The lobbyists get paid, the politicians get paid.  I'm going to eliminate all the subsidies. No subsidies for oil and gas, no subsidies for anybody. But the other piece that is very important and that's resonating is I'm going to also tear down the EPA's ethanol blend wall, which means make it legal to sell mid-level blends of ethanol. And that, in turn, can expand ethanol's share of the marketplace by 60%, but not based on mandates or subsidies, based on the free market.  
  And that message of resonance--  
  But Chuck, the point I made, this actually would expand the Iowa economy. Right now, ethanol is banging into the R.F.S. It's essentially, the blend wall is a cap. As people in Iowa know, as I travel around and do town halls, ethanol's not expanding its market share, because the EPA is preventing it from doing it. And by the way, no other candidate has pledged to remove the blend wall.  No other candidate is focusing on the future for ethanol. And you know someone who joined me on my bus tour across the state? A fellow named Dave VanderGriend. He built more than half of the ethanol plants in the state of Iowa. He is the one who estimates that you could see a 60% market increase. And you know who's hurt by my plan? The lobbyists in Washington. And the people who are helped are Iowa farmers and jobs here in the state of Iowa.  
  Look, absolutely. And--  
  --my entire time in the Senate, I have treated every member of the Senate with civility and respect. As you've seen in this race--  
  Look, as others attack me, I don't respond in kind. I don't engage. When Donald Trump calls me a Canadian anchor baby, I don't respond with an insult. In fact, I'll sing Donald's praises. I like Donald. I think he's bold and brash. Now, I think his policies are liberal. I think he's been too willing to cut a deal and get along with Democrats and grow government and support cronyism.  But that's a policy distinction. And at the end of the day, why was Reagan able to change the country? Because he built a grassroots movement, the Reagan revolution, that turns this country around. That's what we're doing. We've got 12,000 volunteers in Iowa. And it's all about turnout. If conservatives want a principled conservative to not get burned again, they need to come out Monday night, 7:00 p.m.  
  Excellent, thank you Chuck.  
  Take care.  
