Speaker:Scott Walker
Date: 20150916
Category: Debate
Occasion: 2nd Republican debate in Reagan Library, Simi Valley, CA
Source: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2015/09/16/annotated-transcript-september-16-gop-debate/
 Good evening, I'm Scott Walker, and tonight, I want to thank and Mrs. Reagan, and the Reagan Library for hosting us. You see, in my lifetime, the greatest president was a governor from California. Ronald Reagan knew how to go big, and go bold. He understood the essence of moving this country forward, and that's what I did when I took on the status quo in my state, and the Washington based special interest.  Now, more than ever, America needs a leader who will go big and bold again. Someone who's been tested. I'm ready to be that leader. Thank you.    
 But Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake...  
 But Jake, this -- this is -- this...  
 Jake, yeah, absolutely, I'll take this on, because this is an issue that's important in this race.  Just because he says it doesn't make it true. The facts are the facts.    We balanced a $3.6 billion budget deficit, we did it by cutting taxes -- $4.7 billion to help working families, family farmers, small business owners and senior citizens. And it's about time people in America stand up and take note of this.  If you want someone that can actually take on the special interest of Washington, which you yourself said you were part of, using the system, we need somebody that will stand up and fight for average Americans to put them back in charge of their government.  I'm the one who is taking that on. I'll do that as your next president.  
 Two parts to that, one on China, one back for a second on Iran.  When it comes to China, why would we be giving an official state visit to a country that's been involved in a massive cyber attack against the United States? That's not just a visit, that's a 21 gun salute on the South Lawn of the White House. It just doesn't make any sense. If we're ever going to send a message to them, wouldn't this be the time, when they've issued this, sort of, massive attack against us?  And, Jake, for the question, I was one of the first ones to call for terminating the bad deal with Iran on day one. The President came after me and said I need to bone up. You know, the President who called ISIS the JV squad said I needed to bone up.  The reality is it's a bad deal on day one, and it's a bad deal because this president has allowed Iran to go closer, and closer.  I'd love to play cards with this guy because Barack Obama folds on everything with Iran. We need a leader who's going to stand up, and actually ...  
 Jake, just one more moment. This is -- there's something bigger to this. Now, I -- like so many other governors here, I defunded Planned Parenthood four-and-a-half years ago, in a Blue State. But it's bigger than that. We did that in a Blue State, we took the money and put it into women's health, so we did exactly what we're talking about here.  But I think the bigger issue here is we should be able to do this nationally, and this is precisely why so many Republicans are upset with Washington. They see the House and they see the Senate and they say why can't we pass this. Why can't we defund Planned -- put it in a spending bill.  Forget about the 60-vote rule, there's no reason -- and the Constitution doesn't call for 60 votes. Pass it with 51 votes, put it on the desk of the president --  
 -- and go forward and actually make a point. This is why --  
 -- people are upset with Washington.  
 So, the best way to help people see their wages go up is to get them the education, the skill they need, to take on careers that pay more than minimum wage. And, it's why we talk about it, it's all about jobs. You want to help actually get jobs, it's why on that last question we were trying to jump in on taxes. To me, it's not just about taxes, cutting taxes. I've done it as much as anyone has.  I've cut income taxes, I've cut property taxes. In fact, property taxes are lower today in my state than they were before we took office. The real issues about jobs.  Ronald Reagan, our plan is based on the Ronald Reagan tax cuts of 1986. That brought about one of the longest sustained periods of economic growth in American history. All the things we should be talking about tonight are about how do we create jobs, helping people get the skills and the education qualifications they need to succeed.  That's the way you help people create jobs. It's part of our large plan to reform the tax code, to cut taxes, to put in place an education system that gives people the skills and education that they need. To put in place all the above energy policy, but you start on day one with repealing Obamacare.  I'm the only one on this stage that's actually got a plan, introduced an actual plan to repeal Obamacare on day one. I'll send a bill up to Congress, and to make sure enact it...  
 ...I'm going to sign an order that makes the Congress live by the same rules as everybody else. 
 ...That will ensure they repeal Obamacare...  
 ...Jake, Jake, Jake, I just want to address that issue because you said I didn't answer, and I did. I said, to me, I think the real focus shouldn't be -- you know, Hillary Clinton talks about the minimum wage. That's her answer to grow the economy. The answer is to give people the skills and the education so they make far more than minimum wage.  I don't want to argue about how low things are going to be, I want to talk about how do we lift everyone up in America. That's what Reagan talked about. It wasn't how bad things were, it was how to make it better for everyone. That's what we've done in Wisconsin, that's exactly what we'd do as...  
: That's because of Barack -- that's because of Barack Obama.  
: That's because of Barack Obama. We've had a president who called ISIS the J.V. squad, Yemen a success story, Iran a place we can do business with. It's not because of George W. Bush; it's because of Barack Obama...    
  on that point, though, whether it's -- whether we're talking about national security, foreign policy or we're talking about domestic policy, the key...  
 ... the key issue here is talking about leadership. Now, there's a lot of greater people up here, and you've heard a lot of great ideas out there. But I would ask the American people, look at who's been tested.  When there were 100,000 protesters in my capital, I didn't back down, when they issued death threats against me and threats against my family, I didn't back down, when they tried to recall me, I didn't back down, and when they made me the -- one of their number-one targets last year, I didn't back down.  Give me the chance to be your president.  
 I won't back down...  
 ... on any of these issues.  
 To be clear, what I said the other day was that we need to lift the political restrictions that are already in play. Barack Obama's administration has put political restrictions on the military personnel already in Iraq.  We need to lift those and then we need to listen to our military experts, not the political forces in the White House, but our military experts about how many more we sent in. And we certainly shouldn't have a commander-in-chief who sends a message to our adversaries as to how far we're going to go, and how far we're willing to fight, so I'm not putting a troop number.  What I'm saying is lift the political restrictions. When you do that, you empower our military personnel already there to work with the Kurd and the Sunni allies, to reclaim the territory taken by ISIS. And to do so in a way that allows that ISIS doesn't go back in Syria, as we were just talking about here.  That is the fundamental problem going forward. We have a president -- and Hillary Clinton was a part of this, by the way, who has made political decisions for our men and women in uniform. I want the men and women at home to know, if I'm commander-in-chief, I will only send you into harm's way when our national security is at risk. And if we do, you know you'll have our full support, the support of the American people, and you'll have a clear path for victory.    
 ... a lot of those people, though, and I'm going to echo what Senator Rubio just said. This is an issue where, we're talking about my state, it's thousands of manufacturing jobs. Thousands of manufacturing jobs for a rule the Obama administration, own EPA has said will have a marginal impact on climate change.  So we're going to put thousands and thousands of jobs in my state, I think it's something like 30,000 in Ohio, other states across this country, we're going to put people -- manufacturing jobs, the kind of jobs that are far greater than minimum wage, this administration is willing to put at risk for something its own EPA says is marginal ...  
 First of all, I got to say to Carson, Huckabee, thanks a lot for making the rest of us look like chumps up here, but, I'd pick Clara Barton. I once worked for the American Red Cross, she was a great founder of the Red Cross.  
 Harley. I love riding Harley's.  
 Well, I turned 13 years old two days before Ronald Reagan was first elected. A lot of people forget this, but just a few days before that election 1980, he was behind in the polls.  And I think what changed things was people in America realized they didn't want to hear what was bad about America, they wanted to know how it was going to be better. Ronald Reagan wasn't just a conservative Republican, he was an eternal optimist in the American people.  And I am too. So here's what I think will make America better. We need to live in a world where our children are free, are free from the threats of radical Islamic terrorism.  We need to live in an America where we have an economy, where everyone can live their piece of the American dream, no matter what that dream is. And we need to live in an America where we have a federal government that is not too big to fail, but ultimately small enough to succeed, where we send powers back to the states and back to the people.  That's what I did in Wisconsin. We took on the big government union bosses, the big government special interests, many of whom came in from Washington, to spend millions of dollars to try and take me out because we stood up to them, we didn't back down in any of those instances.  If you give me the chance as your next president, I won't back down any day, anyway, anyhow. I'll fight and win for you and your families every single day I'm in office.    
